<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>


<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [

  <!ENTITY bibletime '<application>BibleTime</application>'>
  <!ENTITY kapp "&bibletimehandbook;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">

  <!ENTITY howto-chap1 SYSTEM "howto-importance.docbook">
  <!ENTITY howto-chap2 SYSTEM "howto-basics.docbook">
  <!ENTITY howto-chap3 SYSTEM "howto-interpretation.docbook">

]>

<book>

<bookinfo>
<title>Ръководство за изучаване на Библията</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Bob</firstname>
<surname>Harman</surname>
</author>
</authorgroup>



<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
<copyright>
<year>2001</year><year>2002</year><year>2003</year><year>2004</year>
<holder>Екипът на &bibletime;, info@bibletime.info</holder>
</copyright><copyright>
<year>2001</year><year>2002</year><year>2003</year><year>2004</year>
<holder>Боб Хармън</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice><para>
The copyright of this text is held by the author Bob Harman.  The text was 
adapted for publication with BibleTime by Fred Saalbach.</para>

<para>Non exclusive serial rights for this distribution of this document with the 
&bibletime; software have been made. Redistribution as part of the Bibletime 
software without modification and limited reproduction as provided by the 
"fair use" provisions of the US copyright code are also permitted.</para>

<para>Въпроси, отнасящи се до този материал, отправяйте към: Bob Harman c/o New 
Covenant Church 1079 Big Bethel Rd. Hampton VA 23666 USA 
<email>ncc@ncchampton.org</email>.</para>

<para>Цитатите в оригинала са взети от New American Standard Bible, а превода е 
въз основа на българската Библия издадена през 1938г. (SWORD модул - 
Bulgarian), случаите когато е използван друго издание са изрично упоменати.</para>
</legalnotice>


<date>06/16/2004</date>
<releaseinfo>1.02.00</releaseinfo>


<abstract>
<title>Резюме</title>
<para>
<application>Ръководството за изучаване на Библията</application> 
представлява указания за вашите изследвания.
</para>
<para>It is the hope of the &bibletime; team that this HowTo will provoke the 
readers to study the scriptures to see what they say.  This particular study 
guide has been chosen as it takes care not to advocate any particular 
denominational doctrine.  We expect you to read and study the scriptures to 
understand what they say.  If you start with the attitude that you want to 
have the Lord sow his word in your heart He will not disappoint you.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>Bible</keyword>
<keyword>Study</keyword>
<keyword>HowTo</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

&howto-chap1;
&howto-chap2;
&howto-chap3;

</book>
<!--

Local Variables:

mode: sgml

sgml-minimize-attributes:nil

sgml-general-insert-case:lower

sgml-indent-step:0

sgml-indent-data:nil

End:

-->
