<chapter id="h2-importance"><title>하나님의 말씀의 중요성</title>
<para>Understanding God's word is of great importance to all who call on God's
name.  Study of the Bible is one of the primary ways that we learn to
communicate with God.</para>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-unique"><title>특별한(Unique) 책</title>
<para>The Bible stands alone in many ways.  It is unique in:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
popularity.  Bible sales in North America: more than $500 million per
year. The Bible is both the the all-time and year-to-year best seller!
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
authorship.  It was written over a period of 1600 years by 40 different
authors from different backgrounds, yet reads as if written by one.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
preservation.  F. F. Bruce in <emphasis>Are New Testament Documents
Reliable?</emphasis> compares New Testament manuscripts with other ancient
texts:
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<table id="h2-importance-manuscripts-table">
<title>신약성경 사본과 다른 고대 사본 텍스트들과의 비교</title>
<tgroup cols="5">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>작품</entry>
<entry>씌여진 시기</entry>
<entry>최고(古) 사본</entry>
<entry>최고(古)사본과의 시간차</entry><entry>사본의 수</entry>
</row></thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>헤로도투스(Herodotus)</entry>
<entry>448-428 B.C.</entry><entry>900 A.D.</entry>
<entry>1300년</entry><entry>8
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Tacitus</entry>
<entry>100 A.D.</entry><entry>1100 A.D.</entry>
<entry>1000년</entry><entry>20
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>시저(Caesar)의 <emphasis>Gallic War</emphasis></entry>
<entry>50-58 B.C.</entry><entry>900 A.D.</entry>
<entry>950년</entry><entry>10
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>리비우스(Livy)의 <emphasis>Roman History</emphasis></entry>
<entry>59 B.C. - 17 A.D.</entry><entry>900 A.D.</entry>
<entry>900년</entry><entry>20
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>신약</entry>
<entry>40 A.D. - 100 A.D.</entry><entry>130 A.D. 부분 사본 350 A.D. 전체 사본</entry> <entry>30 - 310년</entry><entry>5000(헬라어) &amp; 10,000(라틴어)
</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>Ten copies of Caesar's <emphasis>Gallic War</emphasis> exist, the earliest
of which was copied 900 years after Caesar wrote the original, etc.  For the
New Testament we have full manuscripts dating to 350 A. D., papyri
containing most of the New Testament from the 200s, and a fragment of John's
gospel from 130 A. D.  How many manuscripts do we have to compare to each
other? 5,000 in Greek and 10,000 in Latin!  </para>
<blockquote><attribution>Textual critic F. J. A. Hort, "The New Testament in the Original Greek",
vol. 1 p561, Macmillan Co., quoted in <emphasis>Questions of Life</emphasis>
p.  25-26</attribution><para>"그밖의 많은 증거들이 신약의 텍스트가 다른 고대 산문들중에서도 절대적이고 어떤 사본도 범접할 수 없는 특별한 경우라는 것을 증명한다." </para></blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-breathed"><title>하나님께서 살아 숨쉬시는 책</title>
<para><emphasis>Heb.4:12 </emphasis>"<emphasis>For the word of God is living and
active...  </emphasis>" Jesus said <emphasis>(Mt.4:4),</emphasis>
"<emphasis>It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every
word that proceeds [lit., is proceeding] from the mouth of God.</emphasis>"
As we read the Bible, God's Spirit is there to speak it to our hearts in a
continually-fresh way.
</para>
<para>딤후 3:16에서 선포하길, "<emphasis>모든 성경은 하나님의 감동으로 된 것으로[lit.,
God-breathed].</emphasis>" 이것을 정말 믿으십니까? 대답하기 전에, 말씀에 대한 예수님의 태도를 생각해보십시오.  </para>
<blockquote><attribution>존 R.W. 스토트, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist</emphasis>, InterVarsity
Press 1978, pp.93-95 </attribution><para>He referred to the human authors, but took it for granted that behind them
all was a single divine Author.  He could equally say 'Moses said' or 'God
said' (Mk.7:10). He could quote a comment of the narrator in Genesis 2:24 as
an utterance of the Creator Himself (Mt.19:4-5).  Similarly He said, 'Well
did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written', when what He went
on to quote is the direct speech of the Lord God (Mk.7:6 &amp; Is.29:13).
It is from Jesus Himself that the New Testament authors have gained their
conviction of the dual authorship of Scripture.  For them it was just as
true to say that 'God spoke of old to our fathers by the prophets' (Heb.1:1)
as it was to say that 'men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God' (2
Pe.1:21).  God did not speak in such a way as to obliterate the personality
of the human authors, nor did men speak in such a way as to corrupt the Word
of the divine Author.  God spoke.  Men spoke.  Neither truth must be allowed
to detract from the other. ...
</para>
<para>
This, then, was Christ's view of the Scriptures.  Their witness was God's
witness. The testimony of the Bible is the testimony of God.  And the chief
reason why the Christian believes in the divine origin of the Bible is that
Jesus Christ Himself taught it.  </para></blockquote>

<para>계속해서 딤후 3:16에서는, "<emphasis>모든 성경은 하나님의 감동으로 된 것으로 교훈과 책망과 바르게 함과 의로 교육하기에
유익하니</emphasis>"라고 말씀하였다. 만일 우리가 성경이 정말로 하나님께서 우리에게 말씀하시는 것이라 믿는다면, 말씀이 우리의
모든 믿음과 행위의 근거가 될 것이다. </para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-works"><title>역사하는 책</title>
<para>
성경을 공부하는 것이 어떤 도움이 되는가? 살전 2:13에서 말씀하기를 "<emphasis>말씀이 또한 너희 믿는 자 속에서
역사하느니라.</emphasis>" 그밖의 다른 말씀들도, 말씀이 역사하는 것에 관해 기록하고 있다.
</para>
<table id="h2-importance-results-table">
<title>성경을 공부하는 것이 그리스도인들에게 어떤 도움을 주는가?</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>참조(Reference)</entry>
<entry>역사하는 것(Action)</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>엡 5:26
</entry>
<entry>정결케한다(cleanses) -- "...물로 씻어 말씀으로 깨끗하게 하사..."
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
행 20:32
</entry>
<entry>
builds up -- " ...the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and
to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.  "
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
롬 15:4
</entry>
<entry>
격려한다 -- "무엇이든지 전에 기록한 바는 우리의 교훈을 위하여 기록된 것이니 우리로 하여금 인내로 또는 성경의 안위로 소망을 가지게
함 이니라."
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
롬 10:17
</entry>
<entry>
믿음을 얻는다 -- "그러므로 믿음은 들음에서 나며 들음은 그리스도의 말씀으로 말미암았느니라."
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
고전 10:11
</entry>
<entry>
가르친다(instructs) -- "저희에게 당한 이런 일이 거울이 되고 또한 말세를 만난 우리의 경계로 기록하였느니라."
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
마 4:4
</entry>
<entry>
양식(nourishment) -- "예수께서 대답하여 가라사대 기록되었으되 '사람이 떡으로만 살것이 아니요 하나님의 입으로 나오는 모든
말씀으로 살 것이라 하였느니라' 하시니."
</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-liberates"><title>자유케하는 책</title>
<para>
Jn.8:32 "<emphasis>and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make
you free.</emphasis>"This is usually quoted by itself.  Is this a
conditional or unconditional promise? Would it apply to all kinds of
knowledge? Find the answers by examining the first half of the sentence, in
v.31. "<emphasis>If you abide in My word, then you are truly disciples of
Mine... </emphasis>"</para>
<para>이것은 조건적인 약속임을 알수 있다, 특별히 하니님의 말씀을 진리로 말함에 있어서는 더욱 그러할 것이다.</para>

<para>엡 4:14에서 쓰인"바람"의 헬라어원문의 뜻을 찾아보면 <emphasis>강렬한
바람</emphasis>이다. "<emphasis>결과적으로 우리는 더이상 교리들의 모든 바람에 이리저리로 흔들리는 어린아이와 같아서는
안된다...</emphasis>"성경을 공부하면 우리가 얻게 되는 유익중 한가지는, 우리가 쉽게 "바람에 흔들리지" 않도록 우리의 믿음을
진리안에 굳건하게 한다는 것이다.</para>

<para><emphasis>예수께서 대답하여 가라사대 </emphasis>"<emphasis>너희가 성경도 하나님의 능력도 알지 못하는고로[KJV
Ye do err] 오해하였도다.</emphasis>"마 22:29</para>
<para>오류로부터 벗어나기위해 필요한 2가지는 무엇인가?</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>하나님의 말씀</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>하나님의 능력 </para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-wars"><title>영적전쟁을 하는 책</title>
<para>
엡 6:10-18은 우리의 영적 무장에 관해 보여준다.</para>
<table id="h2-importance-armor-table">
<title>영적인 무기</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>물음</entry>
<entry>답</entry>
</row></thead>
<tbody>
<row><entry>리스트의 무기 중 몇 가지가 방어용인가?</entry><entry>5</entry></row>
<row><entry>몇 가지가 공격용인가?</entry><entry>One</entry></row>
<row><entry>어떤 것인가? </entry><entry>말씀 - <foreignphrase>레마(rhema)</foreignphrase></entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-exhortations"><title>권면(Exhortations)</title>
<para>
딤후 2:15 (KJV) "<emphasis>네가 진리의 말씀을 옳게 분변하여 부끄러울 것이 없는 일군으로 인정된 자로 자신을 하나님
앞에 드리기를 힘쓰라.</emphasis>"
</para>
<para>
골 3:16 "<emphasis>그리스도의 말씀이 너희 속에 풍성히 거하여 모든 지혜로 피차 가르치며 권면하고 시와 찬미와 신령한 노래를
부르며 마음에 감사함으로 하나님을 찬양하고.</emphasis>"
</para>

<para>네가 어떠한 것에 풍성하다면(골 3:16의 풍성한), 그것의 양은 얼마인가? </para>
<para>
적지 않다!</para>

<para>
Eccl.12:11-12 "<emphasis>The words of wise men are like goads, and masters
of these collections are like well-driven nails; they are given by one
Shepherd.  But beyond this, my son, be warned: the writing of many books is
endless, and excessive devotion to books is wearying to the
body.</emphasis>"
</para> </sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-once"><title>부가(Appendix): "Once for All"</title>
<blockquote>
<attribution>존 R. W. 스토트, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist,</emphasis> InterVarsity
Press 1978, pp.106-107</attribution> <para>The truth regarding the finality of God's initiative in Christ is conveyed
by one word of the Greek Testament, namely the adverb
<foreignphrase>hapax</foreignphrase> and
<foreignphrase>ephapax</foreignphrase>. It is usually translated in the
Authorized Version once, meaning once for all. It is used of what is so done
as to be of perpetual validity and never need repetition, and is applied in
the NT to both revelation and redemption.  Thus, Jude refers to the faith
which was once for all delivered to the saints (Jude 3), and Romans says,
"<emphasis>Christ also died for sins once for all</emphasis>" (Rom.6:10, see
also 1 Pe.3:18; Heb.9:26-28). </para> <para>
Thus we may say that God has spoken once for all and Christ has suffered
once for all.  This means that the Christian revelation and the Christian
redemption are both alike in Christ complete.  Nothing can be added to
either without being derogatory to Christ...  These are the two rocks on
which the Protestant Reformation was built -- Gods revealed word without the
addition of human traditions and Christ's finished work without the addition
of human merits.  The Reformers great watchwords were <foreignphrase>sola
scriptura</foreignphrase> for our authority and <foreignphrase>sola
gratia</foreignphrase> for our salvation.</para>
</blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-supplement"><title>부록(Supplement): 성경 읽기 프로그램</title> <para> Here are some easy programs to systematically read your Bible.  You can do
more than one at a time if you like, for instance #1 with #4, or #2 with
#5.  Vary the program from year to year to keep it fresh!
</para>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
<listitem><para>일년에 신약 일독하기: 주 5일간 하루에 한장씩 읽는다.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>한달에 잠언 일독하기: 한달간 매일 그날의 날짜에 해당하는 잠언 한장씩을 읽는다.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>한달에 시편 일독하기: 20일에는 20, 50, 80, 110, 140편을 읽는 식으로, 매일 (30단위로) 5장의 시편을 읽는다.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>6개월에 시편 &amp; 잠언 일독하기: 매일 시편과 잠언을 한장씩 읽는다.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>2년에 시편과 잠언을 제외한 구약 일독하기: 구약을 하루에 한장씩 읽는다면, 2년하고 2주동안에 (시편과 잠언을 제외한) 구약을 통독할
수 있다.
</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect1>

</chapter>

