<chapter id="h2-basics"><title>성경 공부의 기초들</title>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-purpose">
<title>성경에 접근하는 우리의 목적</title>
<para>
<blockquote><attribution>Jn.5:39-40</attribution> <para>You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal 
life; and it is these that bear witness of Me; and you are unwilling to come 
to Me, that you may have life.</para>
</blockquote> 
</para>

<para>The chief purpose of the book is to bring us to the Person.  Martin Luther 
said <quote>we go to the cradle only for the sake of the baby</quote>; just 
so in Bible study, we do it not for its own sake but for fellowship with 
God.
</para>

<blockquote><attribution>John R.W. Stott, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist</emphasis>, 
InterVarsity Press 1978, pp.97, 104.</attribution>
<para>The Jews to whom Jesus spoke [...] imagined that to possess Scripture was 
tantamount to possessing life. Hillel used to say, &quot;He who has gotten 
to himself words of Torah has gotten to himself the life of the world to 
come.&quot; Their study was an end in itself.  In this they were grievously 
deceived. [...]</para>
<para>성경을 단지 읽기 위해 읽는다면 아무 유익이나 이득이 없다, 오직 우리를 예수 그리스도에게 알리는 데에만 소용이 있다. 성경을 읽을 때에 
필요한 것은 오직 말씀을 통해 그리스도를 만나고자 하는 간절한 소망뿐이다.</para>
</blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-approaches"><title>하나님의 말씀으로의 접근</title>
<para>Hearing and reading provide a telescopic view of the scripture while study 
and memorization provide a microscopic view of scripture.  Meditating on the 
scriptures brings hearing, reading, studying and memorization together and 
cements the word in our minds.</para>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-hear"><title>들음(Hear)</title>
<para>Lk.11:28 <quote>blessed are those who hear the word of God, and observe 
it.</quote></para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-read"><title>읽음(Read)</title>
<para>Rev.1:3 <quote>Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of this 
prophecy [...]</quote></para>
<para>1 Tim.4:13 <quote>give attention to the public reading of Scripture 
[...]</quote>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-study"><title>공부</title>
<para>Acts 17:11 <quote>Now these were more noble-minded than those in 
Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the 
Scriptures daily, to see whether these things were so.</quote>
</para>
<para>2 Tim.2:15 <quote>Be diligent [KJV `Study'] to present yourself approved to 
God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, handling accurately the 
word of truth.</quote></para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-memorize"><title>암송(Memorize)</title>
<para>Ps.119:11 <quote>Thy word I have hid in my heart, that I may not sin against 
Thee.</quote></para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-meditate"><title>묵상(Meditate)</title>
<para>Ps.1:2-3 <quote>But his delight is in the law of the Lord, And in His law he 
meditates day and night. And he will be like a tree firmly planted by 
streams of water, Which yields its fruit in its season, And its leaf does 
not wither; And in whatever he does, he prospers.</quote>
</para>

<para>The Navigators illustrate this by saying that as the thumb can touch all the 
fingers, we can meditate on the Word as we do any of the first four.  
Meditation is a key to revelation. A new Christian needs to hear and read 
the Bible more than they need to study and memorize it. This is so that they 
become familiar with the overall message of the Bible.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-types"><title>성경공부의 유형들</title>
<sect2 id="basics-types-topical"><title>주제별 성경공부</title>
<para>특정 주제(Topic)를 정한뒤, 겹참조와 색인을 참조하여 주제에 맞게 공부한다.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-types-character"><title>인물별 성경공부</title>
<para>성경의 한 인물의 삶을 공부한다, 예. 창 37-50장에서의 요셉의 삶.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="basics-types-expository"><title>설명적인(Expository) 성경공부</title>
<para>특정 구절, 문단, 장 혹은 책을 선택하여 공부한다.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-interpretation"><title>바른 해석의 기본</title>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-interpretation-content"><title>내용(Content)</title>
<para>말하고 있는바가 무엇인가? 원어에서는 어떻게 말하고 있는가? 정의에 주의하라. 그것이 말하고 있지 않은바대로 해석하지마라.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-interpretation-context"><title>문맥(Context)</title>
<para>What do the verses around it say? &quot;Context is king&quot; is the rule -- 
the passage must make sense within the structure of the entire passage and 
book.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-interpretation-cross"><title>겹참조(Cross-reference)</title>
<para>성경의 다른 부분에서는 이 주제에 관하여 어떻게 말하고 있는가? 하나님은 스스로 모순되지 않으신 분입니다. 그래서 우리의 해석은 다른 
말씀에 비춰봐서도 바로 설 수 있어야 합니다.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-expository"><title>마태복음 6:1-18을 본문으로 설명적인(Expository) 성경 공부 해보기</title>
<para>Let's study together Mt.6:1-18.  Read it to yourself, first looking for the 
key verse, the verse that sums up the whole passage.  Think you have it? 
Test it by picking different places in the passage and asking yourself if 
they relate to the thought of the key verse.  Once you find it, write it as 
Roman numeral One of your outline:</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperroman">
	<listitem><para>Beware of practicing your righteousness before men to be noticed</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para>What does <quote>practicing your righteousness</quote> mean? Does the 
passage give any examples? What area of our lives is being addressed? 
<emphasis>Our motives!</emphasis> What sub-headings develop this thought?</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperalpha">
	<listitem><para>When you give</para></listitem>
 	<listitem><para>When you fast</para></listitem>
 	<listitem><para>When you pray</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para>우리의 의를 연습하는 잘못된 방법들을 피할 수 있는 방법들로 아웃라인을 채우십시오:</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperalpha">
  <listitem><para>When you give
  	<orderedlist numeration="loweralpha">
		<listitem><para>don't sound a trumpet.  (how might someone <quote>sound a trumpet</quote> 
today?)</para></listitem>
     		<listitem><para>do it secretly.</para></listitem>
		<listitem><para>etc.</para></listitem>
	</orderedlist></para>
  </listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-worksheet"><title>워크시트(Worksheet): 색인(Concordance)을 사용하는 법</title>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-select"><title>특정 구절 찾기</title>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem><para>문장의 핵심 단어나 가장 특이한 단어를 뽑는다.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>가나다(알파벳) 순으로 정리한다.</para></listitem>
 	<listitem><para>필요한 구절을 찾을때까지 리스트를 따라내려가본다.</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
	
<para>Find these verses:
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem><para><quote>Faithful are the wounds of a friend</quote></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para><quote>We are ambassadors of Christ.</quote></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>The story of the rich man and Lazarus.</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-study"><title>주제별 성경공부 하기 </title>
<para>Let's say you wanted to do a study of the word &quot;redemption.&quot; First 
you would look up that word in the concordance and look up references listed 
for it.  Then you could look up related words and references listed for 
them, e.g.  &quot;redeem, redeemed, ransom,&quot; even &quot;buy&quot; or 
&quot;bought.&quot; </para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-clarify"><title>헬라어와 히브리어 원문의 단어 의미를 찾아보아 의미를 명확히 하기</title>
<para>What if you noticed a contradiction in the KJV between Mt.7:1 <quote>Judge 
not lest you be judged</quote> and 1 Cor.2:15 <quote>He that is spiritual 
judgeth all things.</quote> Maybe there are two different Greek words here, 
both being translated &quot;judge&quot; in English? (We're using Strong's 
from here out.) </para>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem><para>Look up &quot;judge&quot;.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Go down the column of entries to Mt.7:1.  To the right is a number, 2919.  
This refers to the Greek word used.  Write it down.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Now look up &quot;judgeth&quot;.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>고전 2:15로 가보자. 번호는 350이다.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Turn in the back to the Greek dictionary.  (Remember, you're in the NT so 
the language is Greek, while the OT is Hebrew.)  Compare the meaning of 2919 
with the meaning of 350 and you have your answer! </para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-names"><title>이름의 의미들을 찾기</title>
<para>헬라어나 히브리어의 이름의 의미를 찾았던 방식과 같다. </para>
<para>이 이름들을 확인하고 의미들을 적어넣는다.</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>나발(Nabal)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>아비가일(Abigail)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>여호수아(Joshua)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>바나바(Barnabus)</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect2> 

</sect1>

</chapter>
