<chapter id="h2-importance">
  <title>Jumalan Sanan tärkeys</title>
  <para>Understanding God's word is of great importance to all who call on God's
name. Study of the Bible is one of the primary ways that we learn to
communicate with God.</para>
  <sect1 id="h2-importance-unique">
    <title>Ainutlaatuinen kirja</title>
    <para>Raamattu on itsenäinen monilla tavoin. Se on ainutlaatuinen:</para>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>popularity. Bible sales in North America: more than $500 million per
year. The Bible is both the all-time and year-to-year best seller!</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>authorship. It was written over a period of 1600 years by 40 different
authors from different backgrounds, yet reads as if written by one.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>preservation. F. F. Bruce in <emphasis>Are New Testament Documents
Reliable?</emphasis> compares New Testament manuscripts with other ancient
texts:</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <table id="h2-importance-manuscripts-table">
      <title>Uuden Testamentin käsikirjoituksen ja muiden muinaisten tekstien vertailu.</title>
      <tgroup cols="5">
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Työ</entry>
            <entry>Milloin kirjoitettu</entry>
            <entry>Varhaisin kopio</entry>
            <entry>Aikaväli</entry>
            <entry>Kopioiden lukumäärä</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Herodotus</entry>
            <entry>448-428 eKr.</entry>
            <entry>900 jKr.</entry>
            <entry>1300 vuotta</entry>
            <entry>8</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Tacitus</entry>
            <entry>100 jKr.</entry>
            <entry>1100 jKr.</entry>
            <entry>1000 vuotta</entry>
            <entry>20</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Caesarin <emphasis>Gallialainen sota</emphasis></entry>
            <entry>50-58 eKr.</entry>
            <entry>900 jKr.</entry>
            <entry>950 vuotta</entry>
            <entry>10</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Livyn <emphasis>Rooman historia</emphasis></entry>
            <entry>59 eKr. - 17 jKr.</entry>
            <entry>900 jKr.</entry>
            <entry>900 vuotta</entry>
            <entry>20</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Uusi Testamentti</entry>
            <entry>40 jKr. - 100 jKr.</entry>
            <entry>130 jKr. osittaiset käsikirjoitukset 350 jKr. täydet käsikirjoitukset</entry>
            <entry>30 - 310 vuotta</entry>
            <entry>5000 kreikkaa &amp; 10,000 latinaa</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <para>Ten copies of Caesar's <emphasis>Gallic War</emphasis> exist, the earliest
of which was copied 900 years after Caesar wrote the original, etc. For the
New Testament we have full manuscripts dating to 350 A. D., papyri
containing most of the New Testament from the 200s, and a fragment of John's
gospel from 130 A. D. How many manuscripts do we have to compare to each
other? 5,000 in Greek and 10,000 in Latin!</para>
    <blockquote>
      <attribution>Textual critic F. J. A. Hort, "The New Testament in the Original Greek",
vol. 1 p561, Macmillan Co., quoted in <emphasis>Questions of
Life</emphasis>p. 25-26</attribution>
      <para>"Todisteiden totuudellisuuteen ja täydellisyyteen nojaten Uuden Testamentin
tekstit ovat abosluuttisesti ja kansantajuissesti yksin muiden muinaisten
proosatekstien joukossa."</para>
    </blockquote>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="h2-importance-breathed">
    <title>Kirja, johon Jumala puhalsi Hengen</title>
    <para>
    <emphasis>Heb.4:12</emphasis> "<emphasis>For the word of God is living and
active...</emphasis>" Jesus said <emphasis>(Mt.4:4),</emphasis>"
<emphasis>It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every
word that proceeds [lit., is proceeding] from the mouth of God.</emphasis>"
As we read the Bible, God's Spirit is there to speak it to our hearts in a
continually-fresh way.</para>
    <para>2 Tim.3:16 declares, " <emphasis>All scripture is inspired by God [lit.,
God-breathed].</emphasis>" Do you believe this? Before you answer, consider
Jesus' attitude toward the Scriptures.</para>
    <blockquote>
      <attribution>John R.W. Stott, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist</emphasis>,
InterVarsity Press 1978, s.93-95</attribution>
      <para>He referred to the human authors, but took it for granted that behind them
all was a single divine Author. He could equally say 'Moses said' or 'God
said' (Mk.7:10). He could quote a comment of the narrator in Genesis 2:24 as
an utterance of the Creator Himself (Mt.19:4-5). Similarly He said, 'Well
did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written', when what He went
on to quote is the direct speech of the Lord God (Mk.7:6 &amp; Is.29:13). It
is from Jesus Himself that the New Testament authors have gained their
conviction of the dual authorship of Scripture. For them it was just as true
to say that 'God spoke of old to our fathers by the prophets' (Heb.1:1) as
it was to say that 'men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God' (2
Pe.1:21).  God did not speak in such a way as to obliterate the personality
of the human authors, nor did men speak in such a way as to corrupt the Word
of the divine Author. God spoke. Men spoke.  Neither truth must be allowed
to detract from the other.  ...</para>
      <para>This, then, was Christ's view of the Scriptures. Their witness was God's
witness. The testimony of the Bible is the testimony of God. And the chief
reason why the Christian believes in the divine origin of the Bible is that
Jesus Christ Himself taught it.</para>
    </blockquote>
    <para>2 Tim.3:16 goes on, " <emphasis>and profitable for teaching, for correction,
for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be adequate, equipped
for every good work.</emphasis>" If we accept that the Bible really is God
speaking to us, it follows that it will be our authority in all matters of
faith and conduct.</para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="h2-importance-works">
    <title>Kirja, joka toimii</title>
    <para>What will studying the Bible do for you? 1 Thess.2:13 says that the Bible "
<emphasis>performs its work in you who believe.</emphasis>" Beside each
scripture, write down the work the Word performs.</para>
    <table id="h2-importance-results-table">
      <title>Mitä Raamatun tutkiminen tekee kristitylle?</title>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Viittaus</entry>
            <entry>Toiminta</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Ef. 5:26</entry>
            <entry>puhdistaa -- "...pesi sen puhtaaksi vedellä ja sanalla."</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Apt 20:32</entry>
            <entry>builds up -- " ...the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and
to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. "</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Room. 15:4</entry>
            <entry>rohkaisee -- "että meillä toivo olisit pitkäjänteisyyden ja kirjoitusten
rohkaisuun kautta."</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Room. 10:17</entry>
            <entry>antaa uskon -- "Niin tulee usko kuulosta ja kuulo Jumalan Sanan kautta."</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>1 Kor. 10:11</entry>
            <entry>opetus -- "Nyt nämä asiat tapahtuivat heille esimerkiksi, ja ne ovat
kirjoitettu meidän opetukseksemme"</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Matt. 4:4</entry>
            <entry>ravitsemus -- "Mutta Hän vastasi ja sanoi, 'On kirjoitettu, Ihminen ei elä
ainoastaan leivästä, mutta jokaisesta sanasta, joka tulee Jumalan suusta.'"</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="h2-importance-liberates">
    <title>Kirja, joka vapahtaa</title>
    <para>Jn.8:32 " <emphasis>and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make
you free.</emphasis>"This is usually quoted by itself. Is this a conditional
or unconditional promise? Would it apply to all kinds of knowledge? Find the
answers by examining the first half of the sentence, in v.31. " <emphasis>If
you abide in My word, then you are truly disciples of Mine...</emphasis>"</para>
    <para>We see that this is a conditional promise, specifically speaking of the
truth of God's word.</para>
    <para>The Greek word for "wind" used in Eph.4:14 means a <emphasis>violent
wind.</emphasis>" <emphasis>As a result, we are no longer to be children,
tossed here and there by waves, and carried about by every wind of
doctrine...</emphasis>"One thing studying the Bible does for us is to ground
us in the truth, with the result that we won't be easily "blown away."</para>
    <para>
    <emphasis>But Jesus answered and said to them,</emphasis>" <emphasis>You are
mistaken [KJV Ye do err], not understanding the Scriptures, or the power of
God.</emphasis>" Mt.22:29</para>
    <para>Mitkä kaksi asiaa meidän tulee tietää välttääksemme virheen?</para>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Jumalan sana</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Jumalan voima</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="h2-importance-wars">
    <title>Kirja, joka sotii</title>
    <para>Ef.6:10-18 on yksi kuva meidän hengellisistä aseistuksestamme.</para>
    <table id="h2-importance-armor-table">
      <title>Hengellinen sotavaruste</title>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Kysymys</entry>
            <entry>Vastaus</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Kuinka monta asetta luetteloidaan tässä puolustusaseiksi?</entry>
            <entry>5</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Kuinka monta on pahennusta herättävää?</entry>
            <entry>Yksi</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Mikä niistä?</entry>
            <entry>sana - <foreignphrase>rhema</foreignphrase></entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="h2-importance-exhortations">
    <title>Kehotus</title>
    <para>2 Tim.2:15 (KJV) " <emphasis>Study to show thyself approved unto God, a
workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of
truth.</emphasis>"</para>
    <para>Col.3:16 " <emphasis>Let the word of Christ richly dwell within you; with
all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms and hymns and
spiritual songs, singing with thankfulness in your hearts to
God.</emphasis>"</para>
    <para>Jos olet rikas jossain asiassa, kuinka paljon sitä omistat?</para>
    <para>Ei pieni!</para>
    <para>Saarn 12:11-12 " <emphasis>Viisaiden sanat ovat teräviä kuin häränajajan
piikki, mietelauselmat kuin lujia nauloja. Nämä sanat ovat kaikki saman
paimenen antamia. Ja vielä: Poikani, paina varoitus mieleesi. Paljolla
kirjojen tekemisellä ei ole loppua, ja alituinen tutkistelu väsyttää
ruumiin.</emphasis>"</para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="h2-importance-once">
    <title>Liite: "Kerran kaikille"</title>
    <blockquote>
      <attribution>John R. W. Stott, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist</emphasis>,
InterVarsity Press 1978, sivut 106-107</attribution>
      <para>The truth regarding the finality of God's initiative in Christ is conveyed
by one word of the Greek Testament, namely the adverb
<foreignphrase>hapax</foreignphrase>and
<foreignphrase>ephapax</foreignphrase>. It is usually translated in the
Authorized Version once, meaning once for all. It is used of what is so done
as to be of perpetual validity and never need repetition, and is applied in
the NT to both revelation and redemption. Thus, Jude refers to the faith
which was once for all delivered to the saints (Jude 3), and Romans says, "
<emphasis>Christ also died for sins once for all</emphasis>" (Rom.6:10, see
also 1 Pe.3:18; Heb.9:26-28).</para>
      <para>Thus we may say that God has spoken once for all and Christ has suffered
once for all. This means that the Christian revelation and the Christian
redemption are both alike in Christ complete. Nothing can be added to either
without being derogatory to Christ... These are the two rocks on which the
Protestant Reformation was built -- Gods revealed word without the addition
of human traditions and Christ's finished work without the addition of human
merits. The Reformers great watchwords were <foreignphrase>sola
scriptura</foreignphrase>for our authority and <foreignphrase>sola
gratia</foreignphrase>for our salvation.</para>
    </blockquote>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="h2-importance-supplement">
    <title>Liite: Raamatunlukuohjelmat</title>
    <para>Tässä on muutamia helppoja ohjelmia Raamatun lukemiseen
systemaattisesti. Voit käyttää useampaa niistä jos haluat. Esimerkiksi  #1
#4:n kanssa, tai #2 yhdessä #5:n kanssa. Vaihtele ohjelmia vuosittain
pitääksesi opiskelusi tuoreena!</para>
    <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
      <listitem>
        <para>Uusi Testamentti vuodessa: lue yksi luku joka päivä, 5 päivää viikossa.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Sananlaskut kuukaudessa: Lue yksi luku Sananlaskuja joka päivä vastatem
kuukaudenpäivää.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Psalmit yhdessä kuukaudessa: Lue 5 Psalmia 30:n päivän aikana, 20. kerralla
luet Psalmit 20, 50, 80, 110, &amp; 140.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Psalmit &amp; Sananlaskut 6 kuukaudessa: Lue Psalmit ja Sananlaskut läpi
yksi luku päivässä.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Vanha Testamentti ilman Psalmeja &amp; Sananlaskuja kahdessa vuodessa: Jos
luet yhden kappaleen päivässä Vanhaa Testamenttia ohittaen Psalmit &amp;
Sananlaskut, luet Vanhan Testamentin 2 vuodessa ja 2 viikossa..</para>
      </listitem>
    </orderedlist>
  </sect1>
</chapter>
