<chapter id="h2-importance"><title>Het belang van Gods Woord</title>
<para>Understanding God's word is of great importance to all who call on God's 
name.  Study of the Bible is one of the primary ways that we learn to 
communicate with God.</para>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-unique"><title>Een uniek boek</title>
<para>The Bible stands alone in many ways.  It is unique in:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
popularity.  Bible sales in North America: more than $500 million per 
year. The Bible is both the the all-time and year-to-year best seller!
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
authorship.  It was written over a period of 1600 years by 40 different 
authors from different backgrounds, yet reads as if written by one.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
preservation.  F. F. Bruce in <emphasis>Are New Testament Documents 
Reliable?</emphasis> compares New Testament manuscripts with other ancient 
texts:
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<table id="h2-importance-manuscripts-table">
<title>Vergelijking van handschriften van het Nieuwe Testament met andere oude 
teksten.</title>
<tgroup cols="5">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Werk</entry>
<entry>Wanneer geschreven</entry>
<entry>Oudste kopie</entry>
<entry>Tijdsduur</entry><entry>Aantal exemplaren</entry>
</row></thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Herodotus</entry>
<entry>448-428 v. Chr.</entry><entry>900 na Chr.</entry>
<entry>1300 jaar</entry><entry>8
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Tacitus</entry>
<entry>100 na Chr.</entry><entry>1100 na Chr.</entry>
<entry>1000 jaar</entry><entry>20
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Caesar's <emphasis>Gallic War</emphasis></entry>
<entry>50-58 v. Chr.</entry><entry>900 na Chr.</entry>
<entry>950 jaar</entry><entry>10
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><emphasis>Roman History</emphasis> van Livy</entry>
<entry>59 v. Chr. - 17 na Chr.</entry><entry>900 na Chr.</entry>
<entry>900 jaar</entry><entry>20
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Nieuwe Testament</entry>
<entry>40 - 100 n. Chr.</entry><entry>130 na Chr. Gedeeltelijke handschiften 350 na Chr. Complete handschriften</entry> <entry>30 - 310 jaar</entry><entry>5000 Grieks &amp; 10.000 Latijn
</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>Ten copies of Caesar's <emphasis>Gallic War</emphasis> exist, the earliest 
of which was copied 900 years after Caesar wrote the original, etc.  For the 
New Testament we have full manuscripts dating to 350 A. D., papyri 
containing most of the New Testament from the 200s, and a fragment of John's 
gospel from 130 A. D.  How many manuscripts do we have to compare to each 
other? 5,000 in Greek and 10,000 in Latin!  </para>
<blockquote><attribution>Textual critic F. J. A. Hort, "The New Testament in the Original Greek", 
vol. 1 p561, Macmillan Co., quoted in <emphasis>Questions of Life</emphasis> 
p.  25-26</attribution><para>"In de waarheid an compleetheid van het bewijs waarop het rust, staat de 
tekst van het Nieuwe Testament absoluut en onbenaderbaar alleen tussen alle 
andere antieke proza." </para></blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-breathed"><title>En boek met de adem van God</title>
<para><emphasis>Heb.4:12 </emphasis>"<emphasis>For the word of God is living and 
active...  </emphasis>" Jesus said <emphasis>(Mt.4:4),</emphasis> 
"<emphasis>It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every 
word that proceeds [lit., is proceeding] from the mouth of God.</emphasis>" 
As we read the Bible, God's Spirit is there to speak it to our hearts in a 
continually-fresh way.
</para>
<para>2 Tim.3:16 (SV) zegt, "<emphasis>Al de Schrift is van God ingegeven [lett., 
die God ademde].</emphasis>" Geloof je dit? Bedenk, voordat je antwoord 
geeft, hoe Jezus' houding tegenover de Schriften was.  </para>
<blockquote><attribution>John R.W. Stott, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist</emphasis>, 
InterVarsity Press 1978, pp.93-95 </attribution><para>He referred to the human authors, but took it for granted that behind them 
all was a single divine Author.  He could equally say 'Moses said' or 'God 
said' (Mk.7:10). He could quote a comment of the narrator in Genesis 2:24 as 
an utterance of the Creator Himself (Mt.19:4-5).  Similarly He said, 'Well 
did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written', when what He went 
on to quote is the direct speech of the Lord God (Mk.7:6 &amp; Is.29:13).  
It is from Jesus Himself that the New Testament authors have gained their 
conviction of the dual authorship of Scripture.  For them it was just as 
true to say that 'God spoke of old to our fathers by the prophets' (Heb.1:1) 
as it was to say that 'men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God' (2 
Pe.1:21).  God did not speak in such a way as to obliterate the personality 
of the human authors, nor did men speak in such a way as to corrupt the Word 
of the divine Author.  God spoke.  Men spoke.  Neither truth must be allowed 
to detract from the other. ...
</para>
<para>
This, then, was Christ's view of the Scriptures.  Their witness was God's 
witness. The testimony of the Bible is the testimony of God.  And the chief 
reason why the Christian believes in the divine origin of the Bible is that 
Jesus Christ Himself taught it.  </para></blockquote>

<para>2 Tim 3:16 gaat verder, "<emphasis>is ook nuttig om te onderrichten, te 
weerleggen, te verbeteren en op te voeden in de gerechtigheid, opdat de mens 
Gods volkomen zij, tot alle goed werk volkomen toegerust.</emphasis>" Als 
wij accepteren dat de bijbel in feite God is die tot ons spreekt, dan volgt 
daaruit dat de bijbel voor ons autoriteit heeft in alle zaken van geloof en 
gedrag. </para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-works"><title>Een boek dat werkt</title>
<para>
Wat doet bijbelstudie met je? 1 Thess.2:13 zegt dat de bijbel 
"<emphasis>werkzaam is in u, die gelooft</emphasis>" Schrijf naast elk 
schriftgedeelte, het werk dat het Woord doet.
</para>
<table id="h2-importance-results-table">
<title>Wat doet bijbelstudie voor Christenen?</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Naslag</entry>
<entry>Actie</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Ef. 5:26
</entry>
<entry>reinigt -- "...haar reinigende door het waterbad met het woord."
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
Hand.20:32
</entry>
<entry>
builds up -- " ...the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and 
to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.  "
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
Rom.15:4
</entry>
<entry>
bemoedigd -- "opdat wij  in de weg der volharding en van de vertroosting der 
Schriften de hope zouden vasthouden."
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
Rom.10:17
</entry>
<entry>
geeft geloof -- "Zo is dan het geloof uit het horen, en het horen door het 
woord van Christus."
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
1 Cor.10:11
</entry>
<entry>
onderwijst -- "Dit is hun overkomen tot een voorbeeld (voor ons) en het is 
opgetekend ter waarschuwing voor ons"
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
Matt.4:4
</entry>
<entry>
voeding -- "Maar Hij antwoordde en zeide: Er staat geschreven, niet alleen 
van brood zal de mens leven, maar van alle woord, dat uit de mond Gods 
gaat."
</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-liberates"><title>Een bevrijdend boek</title>
<para>
Jn.8:32 "<emphasis>and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make 
you free.</emphasis>"This is usually quoted by itself.  Is this a 
conditional or unconditional promise? Would it apply to all kinds of 
knowledge? Find the answers by examining the first half of the sentence, in 
v.31. "<emphasis>If you abide in My word, then you are truly disciples of 
Mine... </emphasis>"</para>
<para>We zien dat het gaat om een voorwaardelijke belofte, specifiek sprekend over 
de waarheid van Gods woord.</para>

<para>Het Griekse woord voor "wind", wat wordt gebruikt in Ef.4:14 betekent een 
<emphasis>geweldige wind</emphasis> "<emphasis>Dan zijn wij niet langer 
onmondig, op en neder, heen en weder geslingerd onder invloed van allerlei 
wind van leer...</emphasis>"Een ding dat bijbelstudie voor ons doet, is dat 
het ons een vaste grond geeft in de waarheid, met als resultaat dat we niet 
zo eenvoudig "weggeblazen" worden.</para>

<para><emphasis>Jezus antwoordde en zeide tot hen: Gij dwaalt, want gij kent de 
Schriften niet noch de kracht Gods.</emphasis>" Matt.22:29</para>
<para>Welke 2 dingen moeten wij weten om dwaling te voorkomen?</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Gods woord</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Gods kracht </para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-wars"><title>Een boek dat strijdt</title>
<para>
Ef.6:10-18 is een mogelijke afbeelding van onze geestelijke wapenrusting.</para>
<table id="h2-importance-armor-table">
<title>Geestelijke wapenrusting</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Vraag</entry>
<entry>Antwoord</entry>
</row></thead>
<tbody>
<row><entry>Hoeveel van de hier opgenoemde wapens zijn verdedigingswapens?</entry><entry>5</entry></row>
<row><entry>En hoeveel aanvalswapens?</entry><entry>One</entry></row>
<row><entry>Welke? </entry><entry>het woord - <foreignphrase>rhema</foreignphrase></entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-exhortations"><title>Vermaningen</title>
<para>
2 Tim 2:15 (SV) "<emphasis>Benaarstig u, om uzelven Gode beproefd voor te 
stellen, een arbeider, die niet beschaamd wordt, die het Woord der waarheid 
recht snijdt.</emphasis>"
</para>
<para>
Col.3:16 "<emphasis>Het woord van Christus wone rijkelijk in u, zodat gij in 
alle wijsheid elkander leert en terechtwijst en met psalmen, lofzangen en 
geestelijke liederen zingende, Gode dank brengt in uw harten.</emphasis>"
</para>

<para>Als je ergens rijk in bent, hoeveel heb je er dan van? </para>
<para>
Niet een beetje!</para>

<para>
Eccl.12:11-12 "<emphasis>The words of wise men are like goads, and masters 
of these collections are like well-driven nails; they are given by one 
Shepherd.  But beyond this, my son, be warned: the writing of many books is 
endless, and excessive devotion to books is wearying to the 
body.</emphasis>"
</para> </sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-once"><title>Bijlage: "Eens voor altijd"</title>
<blockquote>
<attribution>John R. W. Stott, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist,</emphasis> 
InterVarsity Press 1978, pp.106-107</attribution> <para>The truth regarding the finality of God's initiative in Christ is conveyed 
by one word of the Greek Testament, namely the adverb 
<foreignphrase>hapax</foreignphrase> and 
<foreignphrase>ephapax</foreignphrase>. It is usually translated in the 
Authorized Version once, meaning once for all. It is used of what is so done 
as to be of perpetual validity and never need repetition, and is applied in 
the NT to both revelation and redemption.  Thus, Jude refers to the faith 
which was once for all delivered to the saints (Jude 3), and Romans says, 
"<emphasis>Christ also died for sins once for all</emphasis>" (Rom.6:10, see 
also 1 Pe.3:18; Heb.9:26-28). </para> <para>
Thus we may say that God has spoken once for all and Christ has suffered 
once for all.  This means that the Christian revelation and the Christian 
redemption are both alike in Christ complete.  Nothing can be added to 
either without being derogatory to Christ...  These are the two rocks on 
which the Protestant Reformation was built -- Gods revealed word without the 
addition of human traditions and Christ's finished work without the addition 
of human merits.  The Reformers great watchwords were <foreignphrase>sola 
scriptura</foreignphrase> for our authority and <foreignphrase>sola 
gratia</foreignphrase> for our salvation.</para>
</blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-supplement"><title>Supplement: Bijbellees-programma's</title> <para> Here are some easy programs to systematically read your Bible.  You can do 
more than one at a time if you like, for instance #1 with #4, or #2 with 
#5.  Vary the program from year to year to keep it fresh!
</para>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
<listitem><para>Het Nieuwe Testament in een jaar: lees per dag een hoofdstuk, 5 dagen per 
week.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Spreuken in een maand: lees elke dag een hoofdstuk uit Spreuken, 
overeenkomstig de dag van de maand.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>De Psalmen in een maand: lees 5 Psalmen per dag, met een interval van 
30. Lees bijvoorbeel op de 20e Ps. 20, 50, 80, 110 &amp; 140.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Psalmen &amp; Spreuken in 6 maanden: lees Psalmen en Spreuken door, elke dag 
een hoofdstuk.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Het Oude Testament (zonder Psalmen &amp; Spreuken) in 2 jaar: als je van het 
Oute Testament elke dag een hoofdstuk leest,  en daarbij Psalmen en Spreuken 
overslaat, lees je het Oude Testament in 2 jaar en 2 weken.
</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect1>

</chapter>

