<chapter id="hdbk-intro"><title>Johdanto</title>

<sect1 id="hdbk-intro-about"><title>Tietoja BibleTimestä</title>
	<para>
	&bibletime; on tehokas Raamattuohjelma ohjelmoitu 
&kde;-työpöytäohjelmistolle Linux-käyttöjärjestelmässä. Se perustuu <ulink 
url="http://www.crosswire.org/sword">Sword</ulink>-kirjastoon, joka tarjoaa 
toiminnallisuuden &bibletime;:lle, kuten Raamatun tekstin näyttäminen, 
etsintä, jne. Sword on <ulink url="http://www.crosswire.org">Crosswire Bible 
Societyn</ulink> lippulaiva. </para>
	
	<para>&bibletime; is designed to be used with works encoded in one of the formats 
supported by the Sword project.  Complete information on the supported 
document formats can be found in the <ulink 
url="http://www.crosswire.org/sword/develop/index.jsp"> developers 
section</ulink> of the Sword Project, Crosswire Bible Society.</para>
	
<sect2 id="hdbk-intro-works"><title>Saatavana olevat tehtävät</title>

	<para>
	Yli 200 asiakirjaa 50 kielellä ovat saatavana <ulink 
url="http://www.crosswire.org">Crosswire Bible Societyn</ulink> 
sivuilta. Nämä sisältävät:

	<variablelist>
		<varlistentry>
		<term>Raamattuja</term>
		<listitem>
		<para>
		The full Bible text, with optional things like Strong's Numbers, headings 
and/or footnotes in the text. Bibles are available in many languages, and 
include not only modern versions, but also ancient texts like the Codex 
Leningradensis ("WLC", Hebrew), and the Septuagint ("LXX", Greek). This is 
the most advanced section in the library of the Sword project.
		</para>
		</listitem></varlistentry>
	
		<varlistentry>
		<term>Kirjat</term>
		<listitem>
		<para>Books available include &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot;, &quot;Enuma 
Elish&quot;, and &quot;Josephus: The Complete Works&quot;
		</para>
		</listitem>
		</varlistentry>
			
		<varlistentry>
		<term>Kommentaareja</term>
		<listitem>
		<para>
		Commentaries available include classics like John Wesley's "Notes on the 
Bible", Matthew Henry`s commentary and Luther's "Commentary on Galatians." 
With the <emphasis>Personal</emphasis> commentary you can <link 
linkend="hdbk-op-parts-desk-write">record your own personal notes</link> to 
sections of the Bible.
		</para> 
		</listitem>
		</varlistentry>
			
		<varlistentry>
		<term>Päivittäiset hartaukset</term>
		<listitem>
		<para>Monet ihmiset pitävät arvossa päivän Sanaa. Saatavillaolevat teokset 
sisältävät Daily Light Daily Pathilla, ja Losungenin.
		</para>
		</listitem>
		</varlistentry>
	
		<varlistentry>
		<term>Lexicons/Dictionaries</term>
		<listitem>
		<para>
		Lexicons available include: Robinson's Morphological Analysis Codes, 
Brown-Driver-Briggs Hebrew Lexicon and the International Standard Bible 
Encyclopedia. Dictionaries available include Strong's Hebrew Bible 
Dictionary, Strong's Greek Bible Dictionary, Webster's Revised Unabridged 
Dictionary of the English Language 1913, Nave's Topical Bible.
		</para>
		</listitem>
		</varlistentry>
	</variablelist>

	</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="hdbk-intro-motivation"><title>Motivaatiota</title>
	<para>
	Our desire is to serve God, and to do our part to help others grow in their 
relationship with Him.  We have striven to make this a powerful, quality 
program, and still make it simple and intuitive to operate. It is our desire 
that God be praised, as He is the source of all good things.
	</para>
	<blockquote><attribution>James 1:17, NASB</attribution>
	<para>Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above, coming down 
from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting 
shadow.</para>
	</blockquote>
	<para>
	Jumala siunatkoon sinua käyttäessäsi tätä ohjelmaa.
	</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

</chapter>
