<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY bibletime '<application>BibleTime</application>'>
  <!ENTITY kapp "&bibletimehandbook;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->

  <!-- user entities -->

  <!ENTITY how2-chap1 SYSTEM "how2-importance.docbook">
  <!ENTITY how2-chap2 SYSTEM "how2-basics.docbook">
  <!ENTITY how2-chap3 SYSTEM "how2-interpretation.docbook">

]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The Biblestudy HowTo</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Bob</firstname>
<surname>Harman</surname>
</author>
</authorgroup>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

<copyright>
<year>2001</year><year>2002</year><year>2003</year><year>2004</year>
<holder>The team of &bibletime;, info@bibletime.info</holder>
</copyright><copyright>
<year>2001</year><year>2002</year><year>2003</year><year>2004</year>
<holder>Bob Harman</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice><para>
The copyright of this text is held by the author Bob Harman.  The text was adapted for
publication with BibleTime by Fred Saalbach.</para>

<para>Non exclusive serial rights for this distribution of
this document with the &bibletime; software have been made. Redistribution as part
of the Bibletime software without modification and limited reproduction
as provided by the "fair use" provisions of the US copyright code are
also permitted.</para>

<para>For questions regarding the use of this
material contact Bob Harman c/o New Covenant Church 1079 Big Bethel Rd. Hampton
VA 23666 USA <email>ncc@ncchampton.org</email>.</para>

<para>Scripture quotes are from the New American Standard Bible unless otherwise indicated</para>
</legalnotice>


<date>06/16/2004</date>
<releaseinfo>1.02.00</releaseinfo>


<abstract>
<title>Abstract</title>
<para>
The <application>Biblestudy HowTo</application> is a guide for studying the Bible.
</para>
<para>It is the hope of the &bibletime; team that this HowTo will provoke the
readers to study the scriptures to see what they say.  This
particular study guide has been chosen as it takes care not to
advocate any particular denominational doctrine.  We expect you to read
and study the scriptures to understand what they say.  If you start
with the attitude that you want to have the Lord sow his word in your
heart He will not disappoint you.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>Bible</keyword>
<keyword>Study</keyword>
<keyword>HowTo</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

&how2-chap1;
&how2-chap2;
&how2-chap3;

</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:
-->