<chapter id="h2-basics"><title>Основи на изучаването на Библията</title>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-purpose">
<title>Целта на изучаването</title>
<para>
<blockquote><attribution>Jn.5:39-40</attribution> <para>You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal
life; and it is these that bear witness of Me; and you are unwilling to come
to Me, that you may have life.</para>
</blockquote> 
</para>

<para>The chief purpose of the book is to bring us to the Person.  Martin Luther
said <quote>we go to the cradle only for the sake of the baby</quote>; just
so in Bible study, we do it not for its own sake but for fellowship with
God.
</para>

<blockquote><attribution>John R.W. Stott, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist</emphasis>,
InterVarsity Press 1978, pp.97, 104.</attribution>
<para>The Jews to whom Jesus spoke [...] imagined that to possess Scripture was
tantamount to possessing life. Hillel used to say, &quot;He who has gotten
to himself words of Torah has gotten to himself the life of the world to
come.&quot; Their study was an end in itself.  In this they were grievously
deceived. [...]</para>
<para>Четенето на Библията не е заслуга и не носи никаква изгода само по себе си,
освен ако не ни приближава до Исус Христос. Това от което имаме нужда при
четенето на Библията, е тръпнещото очакване чрез нея да се срещнем с
Христос.</para>
</blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-approaches"><title>Подходи към Божието Слово</title>
<para>Hearing and reading provide a telescopic view of the scripture while study
and memorization provide a microscopic view of scripture.  Meditating on the
scriptures brings hearing, reading, studying and memorization together and
cements the word in our minds.</para>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-hear"><title>Слушане</title>
<para>Lk.11:28 <quote>blessed are those who hear the word of God, and observe
it.</quote></para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-read"><title>Четене</title>
<para>Rev.1:3 <quote>Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of this
prophecy [...]</quote></para>
<para>1 Tim.4:13 <quote>give attention to the public reading of Scripture
[...]</quote>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-study"><title>Study</title>
<para>Acts 17:11 <quote>Now these were more noble-minded than those in
Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the
Scriptures daily, to see whether these things were so.</quote>
</para>
<para>2 Tim.2:15 <quote>Be diligent [KJV `Study'] to present yourself approved to
God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, handling accurately the
word of truth.</quote></para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-memorize"><title>Запаметяване</title>
<para>Ps.119:11 <quote>Thy word I have hid in my heart, that I may not sin against
Thee.</quote></para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-meditate"><title>Размисъл</title>
<para>Ps.1:2-3 <quote>But his delight is in the law of the Lord, And in His law he
meditates day and night. And he will be like a tree firmly planted by
streams of water, Which yields its fruit in its season, And its leaf does
not wither; And in whatever he does, he prospers.</quote>
</para>

<para>The Navigators illustrate this by saying that as the thumb can touch all the
fingers, we can meditate on the Word as we do any of the first four.
Meditation is a key to revelation. A new Christian needs to hear and read
the Bible more than they need to study and memorize it. This is so that they
become familiar with the overall message of the Bible.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-types"><title>Начини за изучаване на Библията</title>
<sect2 id="basics-types-topical"><title>Тематично изучаване</title>
<para>Изберете си определена тема и я следвайте, като използвате препратките или
конкорданс.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-types-character"><title>Изучаване на герои</title>
<para>Изучаване на живота на определен библейски герой. Например: живота на Йосиф
(Бит. 37-50)</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="basics-types-expository"><title>Изследване</title>
<para>Изучаване на определен пасаж, параграф, глава или книга.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-interpretation"><title>Основи на правилното интерпретиране</title>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-interpretation-content"><title>Съдържание</title>
<para>Какво точно се казва? Какво се казва на оригиналния език? Внимавайте с
дефинициите. Не четете това, което не е написано!</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-interpretation-context"><title>Контекст</title>
<para>What do the verses around it say? &quot;Context is king&quot; is the rule --
the passage must make sense within the structure of the entire passage and
book.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-interpretation-cross"><title>Препратки</title>
<para>Какво се казва в други стихове по тази тема? Бог никога не си противоречи,
така че нашето тълкувание трябва да може да издържи проверката на останалата
част от Библията.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-expository"><title>Примерно изучаване на Матея 6:1-18</title>
<para>Let's study together Mt.6:1-18.  Read it to yourself, first looking for the
key verse, the verse that sums up the whole passage.  Think you have it?
Test it by picking different places in the passage and asking yourself if
they relate to the thought of the key verse.  Once you find it, write it as
Roman numeral One of your outline:</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperroman">
	<listitem><para>Beware of practicing your righteousness before men to be noticed</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para>What does <quote>practicing your righteousness</quote> mean? Does the
passage give any examples? What area of our lives is being addressed?
<emphasis>Our motives!</emphasis> What sub-headings develop this thought?</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperalpha">
	<listitem><para>When you give</para></listitem>
 	<listitem><para>When you fast</para></listitem>
 	<listitem><para>When you pray</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para>Сега нека допълним нашия схематичен план с конкретни инструкции как да
избегнем грешното "вършите делата на правдата":</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperalpha">
  <listitem><para>When you give <orderedlist numeration="loweralpha">
		<listitem><para>don't sound a trumpet.  (how might someone <quote>sound a trumpet</quote>
today?)</para></listitem>
     		<listitem><para>do it secretly.</para></listitem>
		<listitem><para>etc.</para></listitem>
	</orderedlist></para>
  </listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-worksheet"><title>Как да използваме конкорданс?</title>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-select"><title>За да намерим определен стих</title>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem><para>Изберете си ключова дума от стиха или дума, която не е често срещана.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Намерете тази дума по азбучен ред</para></listitem>
 	<listitem><para>Под думата има списък от стихове, сред които е търсеният...</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
	
<para>Find these verses: <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem><para><quote>Faithful are the wounds of a friend</quote></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para><quote>We are ambassadors of Christ.</quote></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>The story of the rich man and Lazarus.</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-study"><title>За да проследим тема </title>
<para>Let's say you wanted to do a study of the word &quot;redemption.&quot; First
you would look up that word in the concordance and look up references listed
for it.  Then you could look up related words and references listed for
them, e.g.  &quot;redeem, redeemed, ransom,&quot; even &quot;buy&quot; or
&quot;bought.&quot; </para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-clarify"><title>За да си изясним значенията на гръцките и еврейските думи</title>
<para>What if you noticed a contradiction in the KJV between Mt.7:1 <quote>Judge
not lest you be judged</quote> and 1 Cor.2:15 <quote>He that is spiritual
judgeth all things.</quote> Maybe there are two different Greek words here,
both being translated &quot;judge&quot; in English? (We're using Strong's
from here out.) </para>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem><para>Look up &quot;judge&quot;.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Go down the column of entries to Mt.7:1.  To the right is a number, 2919.
This refers to the Greek word used.  Write it down.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Now look up &quot;judgeth&quot;.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Намерете 1 Коринтяни 2:15 ............. 350</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Turn in the back to the Greek dictionary.  (Remember, you're in the NT so
the language is Greek, while the OT is Hebrew.)  Compare the meaning of 2919
with the meaning of 350 and you have your answer! </para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-names"><title>За да разберем значенията на имената</title>
<para>По същия начин можем да открием значенията на имената на гръцки или
еврейски.</para>
<para>Потърсете тези имена и сравнете значенията им:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Навал</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Авигея</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Исус Навиев</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Варава</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect2> 

</sect1>

</chapter>
