<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>


<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [

  <!ENTITY bibletime '<application>BibleTime</application>'>
  <!ENTITY kapp "&bibletimehandbook;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">

  <!ENTITY howto-chap1 SYSTEM "howto-importance.docbook">
  <!ENTITY howto-chap2 SYSTEM "howto-basics.docbook">
  <!ENTITY howto-chap3 SYSTEM "howto-interpretation.docbook">

]>

<book>

<bookinfo>
<title>Die Anleitung zum Bibelstudium</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Bob</firstname>
<surname>Harman</surname>
</author>
</authorgroup>



<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
<copyright>
<year>2001</year><year>2002</year><year>2003</year><year>2004</year>
<holder>Das &bibletime; Team, info@bibletime.info</holder>
</copyright><copyright>
<year>2001</year><year>2002</year><year>2003</year><year>2004</year>
<holder>Bob Harman</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice><para>
The copyright of this text is held by the author Bob Harman.  The text was 
adapted for publication with BibleTime by Fred Saalbach.</para>

<para>Non exclusive serial rights for this distribution of this document with the 
&bibletime; software have been made. Redistribution as part of the Bibletime 
software without modification and limited reproduction as provided by the 
"fair use" provisions of the US copyright code are also permitted.</para>

<para>Bei Fragen zur Benutzung diese Materials wenden Sie sich bitte an Bob Harman 
c/o New Covenant Church 1079 Big Bethel Rd. Hampton VA 23666 USA 
<email>ncc@ncchampton.org</email>.</para>

<para><emphasis>Anm. des Übersetzers:</emphasis> Der deutsche Text der 
Bibelstellen ist der deutschen revidierten Lutherbibel von 1984 
entnommen. Ich übernehme keinerlei Garantie für die Übersetzung, weder für 
falsche Wiedergabe noch für unwörtliche oder sinnverfälschende 
Übersetzung. Ich habe mit bestem Wissen und Können übersetzt. Da ich jedoch 
kein Übersetzer bin, können sich Fehler eingeschlichen sein. Die 
Originalfassung wird in Englisch mit BibleTime mitgeliefert.</para>
</legalnotice>


<date>06/16/2004</date>
<releaseinfo>1.02.00</releaseinfo>


<abstract>
<title>Zusammenfassung</title>
<para>
Die <application>Anleitung zum Bibelstudium</application> ist ein Handbuch 
zum Studieren der Bibel.
</para>
<para>It is the hope of the &bibletime; team that this HowTo will provoke the 
readers to study the scriptures to see what they say.  This particular study 
guide has been chosen as it takes care not to advocate any particular 
denominational doctrine.  We expect you to read and study the scriptures to 
understand what they say.  If you start with the attitude that you want to 
have the Lord sow his word in your heart He will not disappoint you.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>Bible</keyword>
<keyword>Study</keyword>
<keyword>HowTo</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

&howto-chap1;
&howto-chap2;
&howto-chap3;

</book>
<!--

Local Variables:

mode: sgml

sgml-minimize-attributes:nil

sgml-general-insert-case:lower

sgml-indent-step:0

sgml-indent-data:nil

End:

-->
