<chapter id="h2-importance"><title>Význam Božího Slova</title>
<para>Understanding God's word is of great importance to all who call on God's
name.  Study of the Bible is one of the primary ways that we learn to
communicate with God.</para>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-unique"><title>Jedinečná kniha</title>
<para>The Bible stands alone in many ways.  It is unique in:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
popularity.  Bible sales in North America: more than $500 million per
year. The Bible is both the the all-time and year-to-year best seller!
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
authorship.  It was written over a period of 1600 years by 40 different
authors from different backgrounds, yet reads as if written by one.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
preservation.  F. F. Bruce in <emphasis>Are New Testament Documents
Reliable?</emphasis> compares New Testament manuscripts with other ancient
texts:
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<table id="h2-importance-manuscripts-table">
<title>Porovnání spisů Nového Zákona s ostatními starověkými texty.</title>
<tgroup cols="5">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Text</entry>
<entry>Kdy napsáno</entry>
<entry>Nejstarší opis</entry>
<entry>Časový odstup</entry><entry>Počet opisů</entry>
</row></thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Herodotus</entry>
<entry>448-428 př.K.</entry><entry>900 n.l.</entry>
<entry>1300 let</entry><entry>8
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Tacitus</entry>
<entry>100 n.l.</entry><entry>1100 n.l.</entry>
<entry>1000 let</entry><entry>20
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Caesarova <emphasis>Válka Galská</emphasis></entry>
<entry>50-58 př.K.</entry><entry>900 n.l.</entry>
<entry>950 let</entry><entry>10
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Livyho <emphasis>Roman History</emphasis></entry>
<entry>59 př.K. - 17 n.l.</entry><entry>900 n.l.</entry>
<entry>900 let</entry><entry>20
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Nový Zákon</entry>
<entry>40 n.l. - 100 n.l.</entry><entry>130 n.l. zlomky spisů, 350 n.l. úplné spisy</entry> <entry>30 - 310 let</entry><entry>5000 řeckých a 10 000 latinských
</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>Ten copies of Caesar's <emphasis>Gallic War</emphasis> exist, the earliest
of which was copied 900 years after Caesar wrote the original, etc.  For the
New Testament we have full manuscripts dating to 350 A. D., papyri
containing most of the New Testament from the 200s, and a fragment of John's
gospel from 130 A. D.  How many manuscripts do we have to compare to each
other? 5,000 in Greek and 10,000 in Latin!  </para>
<blockquote><attribution>Textual critic F. J. A. Hort, "The New Testament in the Original Greek",
vol. 1 p561, Macmillan Co., quoted in <emphasis>Questions of Life</emphasis>
p.  25-26</attribution><para>"V pravdivosti a plnosti důkazů, kterými je podepřen, je text Nového Zákona
absolutně a nedosažitelně osamocený mezi ostatními starověkými prózami." </para></blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-breathed"><title>Kniha vdechnutá Bohem</title>
<para><emphasis>Heb.4:12 </emphasis>"<emphasis>For the word of God is living and
active...  </emphasis>" Jesus said <emphasis>(Mt.4:4),</emphasis>
"<emphasis>It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every
word that proceeds [lit., is proceeding] from the mouth of God.</emphasis>"
As we read the Bible, God's Spirit is there to speak it to our hearts in a
continually-fresh way.
</para>
<para>2Tm 3,16 vyznává, že <emphasis>"Veškeré Písmo vdechnuté Bohem..."</emphasis>
Věříte tomu? Než odpovíte, zvažte Ježíšův postoj k Písmu.  </para>
<blockquote><attribution>John R.W. Stott, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist</emphasis>,
InterVarsity Press 1978, pp.93-95 </attribution><para>He referred to the human authors, but took it for granted that behind them
all was a single divine Author.  He could equally say 'Moses said' or 'God
said' (Mk.7:10). He could quote a comment of the narrator in Genesis 2:24 as
an utterance of the Creator Himself (Mt.19:4-5).  Similarly He said, 'Well
did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written', when what He went
on to quote is the direct speech of the Lord God (Mk.7:6 &amp; Is.29:13).
It is from Jesus Himself that the New Testament authors have gained their
conviction of the dual authorship of Scripture.  For them it was just as
true to say that 'God spoke of old to our fathers by the prophets' (Heb.1:1)
as it was to say that 'men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God' (2
Pe.1:21).  God did not speak in such a way as to obliterate the personality
of the human authors, nor did men speak in such a way as to corrupt the Word
of the divine Author.  God spoke.  Men spoke.  Neither truth must be allowed
to detract from the other. ...
</para>
<para>
This, then, was Christ's view of the Scriptures.  Their witness was God's
witness. The testimony of the Bible is the testimony of God.  And the chief
reason why the Christian believes in the divine origin of the Bible is that
Jesus Christ Himself taught it.  </para></blockquote>

<para>2Tm 3,16 pokračuje: <emphasis>"a je užitečné k vyučování, k usvědčování, k
napravování a k výchově ve spravedlnosti, aby byl Boží člověk dokonalý a
vybavený ke každému dobrému dílu."</emphasis> Pokud přijmeme, že Bible je
opravdu Bůh mluvící k nám, budeme ji mít jako autoritu ve všech věcech víry
a chování. </para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-works"><title>Kniha, která pracuje</title>
<para>
Co vám studium Bible přinese? 1Te 2,13 říká, že Bible je <emphasis>"slovo
Boží, jež také působí ve vás věřících."</emphasis> Popišme si, co všechno
Slovo vykonává.
</para>
<table id="h2-importance-results-table">
<title>Co studium Bible dělá s křesťanem?</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Odkaz</entry>
<entry>Vliv</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Ef 5,26
</entry>
<entry>očišťuje - "...když ji očistil koupelí vody skrze slovo."
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
Sk 20,32
</entry>
<entry>
builds up -- " ...the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and
to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.  "
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
Ř 15,4
</entry>
<entry>
povzbuzuje - "abychom skrze trpělivost a skrze potěšení Písem měli naději."
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
Ř 10,17
</entry>
<entry>
dává víru - "Víra je tedy ze slyšení a slyšení skrze slovo Boží."
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
1K 10,11
</entry>
<entry>
napomíná - "A toto všechno se jim stalo na výstrahu a bylo to zapsáno pro
napomenutí nám"
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
Mt 4,4
</entry>
<entry>
sytí - "Je napsáno: 'Nejen chlebem bude člověk živ, ale každým slovem, které
vychází z Božích úst.'"
</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-liberates"><title>Kniha, která osvobozuje</title>
<para>
Jn.8:32 "<emphasis>and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make
you free.</emphasis>"This is usually quoted by itself.  Is this a
conditional or unconditional promise? Would it apply to all kinds of
knowledge? Find the answers by examining the first half of the sentence, in
v.31. "<emphasis>If you abide in My word, then you are truly disciples of
Mine... </emphasis>"</para>
<para>Vidíme, že se jedná o podmíněné zaslíbení, mluvící speciálně o pravdě Božího
slova.</para>

<para>Řecké slovo pro "vítr" v Ef 4,14 má význam <emphasis>prudký
vítr</emphasis>. <emphasis>abychom už nebyli nemluvňata zmítaná a unášená
každým větrem učení...</emphasis> Jedna z věcí, které nám studium Bible
přináší, je zakořenění v pravdě, takže nemůžeme být jednoduše "odfouknuti".</para>

<para><emphasis>Ježíš jim však odpověděl: "Bloudíte [v ang. KJV: 'Ye do err' =
děláte chybu], protože neznáte Písma ani Boží moc."</emphasis>Mt 22,29</para>
<para>Jaké dvě věci musíme znát, abychom se vyvarovali chyb?</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Boží slovo</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Boží moc </para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-wars"><title>Kniha, která bojuje</title>
<para>
V Ef 6,10-18 je jeden přehled naší duchovní zbroje.</para>
<table id="h2-importance-armor-table">
<title>Duchovní zbroj</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Otázka</entry>
<entry>Odpověď</entry>
</row></thead>
<tbody>
<row><entry>Kolik popsaných částí zbroje slouží k obraně?</entry><entry>5</entry></row>
<row><entry>Kolik je jich útočných?</entry><entry>One</entry></row>
<row><entry>Která (-é)? </entry><entry>Slovo - <foreignphrase>rhema</foreignphrase></entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-exhortations"><title>Napomenutí</title>
<para>
<emphasis>"Usiluj [v ang. KJV 'Study'=studuj], aby ses mohl představit jako
osvědčený před Bohem, dělník, který se nemá za co stydět a který správně
vykládá slovo pravdy."</emphasis> (2Tm 2,15)
</para>
<para>
<emphasis>"Ať ve vás bohatě přebývá Kristovo slovo ve vší
moudrosti. Vyučujte a napomínejte jedni druhé žalmy, chvalozpěvy a
duchovními písněmi; s vděčností zpívejte svým srdcem Pánu."</emphasis> (Kol
3,16)
</para>

<para>Pokud jste v něčem bohatí, kolik toho něčeho máte? </para>
<para>
Nemálo!</para>

<para>
Eccl.12:11-12 "<emphasis>The words of wise men are like goads, and masters
of these collections are like well-driven nails; they are given by one
Shepherd.  But beyond this, my son, be warned: the writing of many books is
endless, and excessive devotion to books is wearying to the
body.</emphasis>"
</para> </sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-once"><title>Dodatek: "Jednou provždy"</title>
<blockquote>
<attribution>John R. W. Stott, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist,</emphasis>
InterVarsity Press 1978, pp.106-107</attribution> <para>The truth regarding the finality of God's initiative in Christ is conveyed
by one word of the Greek Testament, namely the adverb
<foreignphrase>hapax</foreignphrase> and
<foreignphrase>ephapax</foreignphrase>. It is usually translated in the
Authorized Version once, meaning once for all. It is used of what is so done
as to be of perpetual validity and never need repetition, and is applied in
the NT to both revelation and redemption.  Thus, Jude refers to the faith
which was once for all delivered to the saints (Jude 3), and Romans says,
"<emphasis>Christ also died for sins once for all</emphasis>" (Rom.6:10, see
also 1 Pe.3:18; Heb.9:26-28). </para> <para>
Thus we may say that God has spoken once for all and Christ has suffered
once for all.  This means that the Christian revelation and the Christian
redemption are both alike in Christ complete.  Nothing can be added to
either without being derogatory to Christ...  These are the two rocks on
which the Protestant Reformation was built -- Gods revealed word without the
addition of human traditions and Christ's finished work without the addition
of human merits.  The Reformers great watchwords were <foreignphrase>sola
scriptura</foreignphrase> for our authority and <foreignphrase>sola
gratia</foreignphrase> for our salvation.</para>
</blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-supplement"><title>Příloha: Plány čtení Bible</title> <para> Here are some easy programs to systematically read your Bible.  You can do
more than one at a time if you like, for instance #1 with #4, or #2 with
#5.  Vary the program from year to year to keep it fresh!
</para>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
<listitem><para>Nový Zákon za rok: čtěte jednu kapitolu denně, pět dní v týdnu.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Přísloví za měsíc: čtěte jednu kapitolu Přísloví denně, podle čísla dne v
měsíci.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Žalmy za měsíc: čtěte každý den pět Žalmů s odstupem třiceti čísel,
například pro 20. den čtěte Ž 20, 50, 80, 110 a 140.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Žalmy a Přísloví za šest měsíců: čtěte od začátku do konce jednu kapitolu
denně.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Starý Zákon bez Žalmů a Přísloví za dva roky: když budete číst jednu
kapitolu denně a přeskočíte Žalmy a Přísloví, přečtete celý SZ za dva roky a
dva týdny.
</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect1>

</chapter>

