<chapter id="h2-basics"><title>Základy studia Bible</title>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-purpose">
<title>Proč přistupujeme k Bibli</title>
<para>
<blockquote><attribution>Jn.5:39-40</attribution> <para>You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal
life; and it is these that bear witness of Me; and you are unwilling to come
to Me, that you may have life.</para>
</blockquote> 
</para>

<para>The chief purpose of the book is to bring us to the Person.  Martin Luther
said <quote>we go to the cradle only for the sake of the baby</quote>; just
so in Bible study, we do it not for its own sake but for fellowship with
God.
</para>

<blockquote><attribution>John R.W. Stott, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist</emphasis>,
InterVarsity Press 1978, pp.97, 104.</attribution>
<para>The Jews to whom Jesus spoke [...] imagined that to possess Scripture was
tantamount to possessing life. Hillel used to say, &quot;He who has gotten
to himself words of Torah has gotten to himself the life of the world to
come.&quot; Their study was an end in itself.  In this they were grievously
deceived. [...]</para>
<para>V samotném čtení Písma není žádná zásluha ani zisk, pokud nás nepřivede k
Ježíši Kristu. Při každém čtení Bible je potřeba horlivě očekávat, že se
takto můžeme setkat s Ježíšem.</para>
</blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-approaches"><title>Přístupy k Božímu Slovu</title>
<para>Hearing and reading provide a telescopic view of the scripture while study
and memorization provide a microscopic view of scripture.  Meditating on the
scriptures brings hearing, reading, studying and memorization together and
cements the word in our minds.</para>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-hear"><title>Slyšení</title>
<para>Lk.11:28 <quote>blessed are those who hear the word of God, and observe
it.</quote></para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-read"><title>Čtení</title>
<para>Rev.1:3 <quote>Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of this
prophecy [...]</quote></para>
<para>1 Tim.4:13 <quote>give attention to the public reading of Scripture
[...]</quote>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-study"><title>Scripture quotes are from the New American Standard Bible unless otherwise
indicated</title>
<para>Acts 17:11 <quote>Now these were more noble-minded than those in
Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the
Scriptures daily, to see whether these things were so.</quote>
</para>
<para>2 Tim.2:15 <quote>Be diligent [KJV `Study'] to present yourself approved to
God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, handling accurately the
word of truth.</quote></para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-memorize"><title>Memorování</title>
<para>Ps.119:11 <quote>Thy word I have hid in my heart, that I may not sin against
Thee.</quote></para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-approaches-meditate"><title>Meditování</title>
<para>Ps.1:2-3 <quote>But his delight is in the law of the Lord, And in His law he
meditates day and night. And he will be like a tree firmly planted by
streams of water, Which yields its fruit in its season, And its leaf does
not wither; And in whatever he does, he prospers.</quote>
</para>

<para>The Navigators illustrate this by saying that as the thumb can touch all the
fingers, we can meditate on the Word as we do any of the first four.
Meditation is a key to revelation. A new Christian needs to hear and read
the Bible more than they need to study and memorize it. This is so that they
become familiar with the overall message of the Bible.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-types"><title>Typy studia Bible</title>
<sect2 id="basics-types-topical"><title>Tématické studium</title>
<para>Zvolí se určité téma a procházejí se místa, která o tématu mluví. Využívají
se přitom křížové odkazy a konkordance.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-types-character"><title>Studium postavy</title>
<para>Studium života biblické postavy, např. Josefa v Gn 37-50.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="basics-types-expository"><title>Vysvětlující studium</title>
<para>Studium určité pasáže: odstavce, kapitoly nebo knihy.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-interpretation"><title>Základy správného výkladu</title>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-interpretation-content"><title>Obsah</title>
<para>Co text říká? Co text říká v originálním jazyce? Dávejte si pozor na
definice. Nesnažte se "číst" něco, co text neříká.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-interpretation-context"><title>Souvislosti</title>
<para>What do the verses around it say? &quot;Context is king&quot; is the rule --
the passage must make sense within the structure of the entire passage and
book.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-interpretation-cross"><title>Odkazy</title>
<para>Co říkají ostatní verše k tomuto tématu v celé Bibli? Bůh nepopře sám sebe,
proto naše interpretace musí obstát vzhledem ke zbytku Písma.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-expository"><title>Vysvětlující studium Matouše 6,1-18</title>
<para>Let's study together Mt.6:1-18.  Read it to yourself, first looking for the
key verse, the verse that sums up the whole passage.  Think you have it?
Test it by picking different places in the passage and asking yourself if
they relate to the thought of the key verse.  Once you find it, write it as
Roman numeral One of your outline:</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperroman">
	<listitem><para>Beware of practicing your righteousness before men to be noticed</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para>What does <quote>practicing your righteousness</quote> mean? Does the
passage give any examples? What area of our lives is being addressed?
<emphasis>Our motives!</emphasis> What sub-headings develop this thought?</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperalpha">
	<listitem><para>When you give</para></listitem>
 	<listitem><para>When you fast</para></listitem>
 	<listitem><para>When you pray</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para>A teď doplňte osnovu o konkrétní instrukce, jak se vyhnout špatným způsobům
praktikování spravedlnosti:</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperalpha">
  <listitem><para>When you give <orderedlist numeration="loweralpha">
		<listitem><para>don't sound a trumpet.  (how might someone <quote>sound a trumpet</quote>
today?)</para></listitem>
     		<listitem><para>do it secretly.</para></listitem>
		<listitem><para>etc.</para></listitem>
	</orderedlist></para>
  </listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-basics-worksheet"><title>Jak používat konkordanci</title>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-select"><title>K nalezení konkrétního verše</title>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem><para>Vyberte z verše klíčové slovo nebo slovo nejméně běžné.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Vyhledejte v konkordanci toto slovo (v základním tvaru).</para></listitem>
 	<listitem><para>Projděte seznam výskytů, dokud nenaleznete váš verš.</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
	
<para>Find these verses: <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem><para><quote>Faithful are the wounds of a friend</quote></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para><quote>We are ambassadors of Christ.</quote></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>The story of the rich man and Lazarus.</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-study"><title>K tématickému studiu </title>
<para>Let's say you wanted to do a study of the word &quot;redemption.&quot; First
you would look up that word in the concordance and look up references listed
for it.  Then you could look up related words and references listed for
them, e.g.  &quot;redeem, redeemed, ransom,&quot; even &quot;buy&quot; or
&quot;bought.&quot; </para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-clarify"><title>K ujasnění slovního významu v řečtině a hebrejštině</title>
<para>What if you noticed a contradiction in the KJV between Mt.7:1 <quote>Judge
not lest you be judged</quote> and 1 Cor.2:15 <quote>He that is spiritual
judgeth all things.</quote> Maybe there are two different Greek words here,
both being translated &quot;judge&quot; in English? (We're using Strong's
from here out.) </para>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem><para>Look up &quot;judge&quot;.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Go down the column of entries to Mt.7:1.  To the right is a number, 2919.
This refers to the Greek word used.  Write it down.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Now look up &quot;judgeth&quot;.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>U odkazu na 1K 2,15 je číslo 350.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Turn in the back to the Greek dictionary.  (Remember, you're in the NT so
the language is Greek, while the OT is Hebrew.)  Compare the meaning of 2919
with the meaning of 350 and you have your answer! </para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="h2-basics-worksheet-names"><title>K nalezení významu jmen</title>
<para>Stejným způsobem můžete zjistit význam jmen v řečtině nebo hebrejštině.</para>
<para>Nalezněte tato jména a zjistěte jejich význam:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Nábal</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Abigail</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Jozue</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Barnabáš</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect2> 

</sect1>

</chapter>
