<chapter id="hdbk-intro">
  <title>Introductie</title>
  <sect1 id="hdbk-intro-about">
    <title>About &bibletime;</title>

    <para>&bibletime; is a Bible study tool with support for different types of texts
and languages. Even large amounts of works modules are easy to install and
manage. It is built on the <ulink
url="http://www.crosswire.org/sword/">&sword;</ulink> library, which
provides the back-end functionality for &bibletime;, such as viewing Bible
text, searching etc. &sword; is the flagship product of the <ulink
url="http://www.crosswire.org">&cbs;</ulink>.</para>

    <para>&bibletime; is designed to be used with works encoded in one of the formats
supported by the &sword; project. Complete information on the supported
document formats can be found in the <ulink
url="http://www.crosswire.org/sword/develop/index.jsp"> developers
section</ulink> of the &sword; Project, &cbs;.</para>

    <sect2 id="hdbk-intro-works">
      <title>Beschikbare modules</title>
      <para>Over 280 documents in 50 languages are available from the <ulink
url="http://www.crosswire.org">&cbs;</ulink>.  These include: <variablelist>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Bijbels</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>The full Bible text, with optional things like Strong's Numbers, headings
and/or footnotes in the text.  Bibles are available in many languages, and
include not only modern versions, but also ancient texts like the Codex
Leningradensis ("WLC", Hebrew), and the Septuagint ("LXX", Greek). This is
the most advanced section in the library of the &sword; project.</para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Boeken</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>Books available include "Imitation of Christ", "Enuma Elish", and "Josephus:
The Complete Works"</para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Bijbelcommentaren</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>Commentaries available include classics like John Wesley's "Notes on the
Bible", Matthew Henry's commentary and Luther's "Commentary on Galatians."
With the <emphasis>Personal</emphasis> commentary you can <link
linkend="hdbk-op-parts-desk-write"> record your own personal notes</link> to
sections of the Bible.</para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Dagelijkse overdenkingen</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>Veel mensen waarderen deze dagelijkse porties van Gods Woord. Onder de
beschikbare modules bevinden zich Daily Light on the Daily Path (Dagelijks
Licht op het Dagelijkse Pad) en de Losungen.</para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
          <term>Lexicons/Woordenboeken</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>Lexicons available include: Robinson's Morphological Analysis Codes, and the
International Standard Bible Encyclopaedia. Dictionaries available include
Strong's Hebrew Bible Dictionary, Strong's Greek Bible Dictionary, Webster's
Revised Unabridged Dictionary of the English Language 1913, Nave's Topical
Bible.</para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
      </variablelist> There are several other repositories that
&bibletime; can use.
      </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="hdbk-intro-motivation">
      <title>Motivatie</title>
      <para>Our desire is to serve God, and to do our part to help others grow in their
relationship with Him. We have striven to make this a powerful, quality
program, and still make it simple and intuitive to operate. It is our desire
that God be praised, as He is the source of all good things.</para>
      <blockquote>
        <attribution>Jakobus 1:17, NBG51</attribution>
        <para>Iedere gave, die goed, en elk geschenk, dat volmaakt is, daalt van boven
neder, van de Vader der lichten, bij wie geen verandering is of zweem van
ommekeer.</para>
      </blockquote>
      <para>God zegene u wanneer u dit programma gebruikt.</para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>
</chapter>
