<chapter id="h2-importance"><title>Importance de la Parole de Dieu</title>
<para>Understanding God's word is of great importance to all who call on God's 
name.  Study of the Bible is one of the primary ways that we learn to 
communicate with God.</para>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-unique"><title>Un livre unique</title>
<para>The Bible stands alone in many ways.  It is unique in:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
popularity.  Bible sales in North America: more than $500 million per 
year. The Bible is both the the all-time and year-to-year best seller!
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
authorship.  It was written over a period of 1600 years by 40 different 
authors from different backgrounds, yet reads as if written by one.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
preservation.  F. F. Bruce in <emphasis>Are New Testament Documents 
Reliable?</emphasis> compares New Testament manuscripts with other ancient 
texts:
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<table>
<title>Comparaison des manuscrits du Nouveau Testament avec d'autres textes 
anciens.</title>
<tgroup cols="5">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Ouvrage</entry>
<entry>Date d'écriture</entry>
<entry>Copie la plus ancienne</entry>
<entry>Période écoulée</entry><entry>Nombre de copies</entry>
</row></thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Hérodote</entry>
<entry>448-428 avant J.C.</entry><entry>900 après J.C.</entry>
<entry>1300 ans</entry><entry>8
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Tacite</entry>
<entry>100 après J.C.</entry><entry>1100 après J.C.</entry>
<entry>1000 ans</entry><entry>20
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>la <emphasis>Guerre des Gaules</emphasis> de César</entry>
<entry>50-58 avant J.C.</entry><entry>900 après J.C.</entry>
<entry>950 ans</entry><entry>10
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>L'<emphasis>histoire romaine</emphasis> de Live</entry>
<entry>59 avant J.C. - 17 après J.C.</entry><entry>900 après J.C.</entry>
<entry>900 ans</entry><entry>20
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Nouveau Testament</entry>
<entry>40 après J.C. - 100 après J.C.</entry><entry>130 après J.C. manuscrits partiels 350 après J.C. manuscrits complets</entry> <entry>30 - 310 ans</entry><entry>5000 grecs &amp; 10000 latins
</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>Ten copies of Caesar's <emphasis>Gallic War</emphasis> exist, the earliest 
of which was copied 900 years after Caesar wrote the original, etc.  For the 
New Testament we have full manuscripts dating to 350 A. D., papyri 
containing most of the New Testament from the 200s, and a fragment of John's 
gospel from 130 A. D.  How many manuscripts do we have to compare to each 
other? 5,000 in Greek and 10,000 in Latin!  </para>
<blockquote><attribution>Textual critic F. J. A. Hort, "The New Testament in the Original Greek", 
vol. 1 p561, Macmillan Co., quoted in <emphasis>Questions of Life</emphasis> 
p.  25-26</attribution><para>"Dans la vérité et la plénitude de l'évidence sur laquelle ils reposent, les 
textes du Nouveau Testament se placent absolument et indiscutablement à part 
parmis les autres écrits en prose anciens." </para></blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-breathed"><title>Un livre parcouru du Souffle de Dieu</title>
<para><emphasis>Heb.4:12 </emphasis>"<emphasis>For the word of God is living and 
active...  </emphasis>" Jesus said <emphasis>(Mt.4:4),</emphasis> 
"<emphasis>It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every 
word that proceeds [lit., is proceeding] from the mouth of God.</emphasis>" 
As we read the Bible, God's Spirit is there to speak it to our hearts in a 
continually-fresh way.
</para>
<para>2 Tim.3:16 dit,"<emphasis>Toute Écriture est inspirée de Dieu [litt., est 
parcourue du Souffle de Dieu].</emphasis>" Le pensez vous ? Avant de 
répondre, prêtez attention à l'attitude de Jésus vis-à-vis des Écritures.  </para>
<blockquote><attribution>John R.W. Stott, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist</emphasis>, 
InterVarsity Press 1978, pp.93-95 </attribution><para>He referred to the human authors, but took it for granted that behind them 
all was a single divine Author.  He could equally say 'Moses said' or 'God 
said' (Mk.7:10). He could quote a comment of the narrator in Genesis 2:24 as 
an utterance of the Creator Himself (Mt.19:4-5).  Similarly He said, 'Well 
did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written', when what He went 
on to quote is the direct speech of the Lord God (Mk.7:6 &amp; Is.29:13).  
It is from Jesus Himself that the New Testament authors have gained their 
conviction of the dual authorship of Scripture.  For them it was just as 
true to say that 'God spoke of old to our fathers by the prophets' (Heb.1:1) 
as it was to say that 'men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God' (2 
Pe.1:21).  God did not speak in such a way as to obliterate the personality 
of the human authors, nor did men speak in such a way as to corrupt the Word 
of the divine Author.  God spoke.  Men spoke.  Neither truth must be allowed 
to detract from the other. ...
</para>
<para>
This, then, was Christ's view of the Scriptures.  Their witness was God's 
witness. The testimony of the Bible is the testimony of God.  And the chief 
reason why the Christian believes in the divine origin of the Bible is that 
Jesus Christ Himself taught it.  </para></blockquote>

<para>2 Timothée 3:16 poursuit : "<emphasis>... et utile pour enseigner, pour 
convaincre, pour corriger, pour instruire dans la justice, afin que l'homme 
de Dieu soit accompli et propre à toute bonne oeuvre.</emphasis>" Si nous 
admettons que la Bible est réellement Dieu nous parlant, il s'ensuit qu'elle 
doit faire pleinement autorité dans notre foi et notre conduite. </para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-works"><title>Un livre qui agit</title>
<para>
Que l'étude de la Bible va-t-elle vous apporter ? 1 Thessaloniciens 2:13 
affirme que la Bible "<emphasis>...agit en vous qui croyez.</emphasis>" À 
coté de chaque verset, l'ouvrage accomplit par la Parole est écrit.
</para>
<table>
<title>Qu'est ce que l'étude de la Bible apporte aux chrétiens ?</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Référence</entry>
<entry>Action</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Eph. 5:26
</entry>
<entry>sanctification -- "afin de la sanctifier par la parole, après l'avoir 
purifiée par le baptême d'eau..."
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
Actes 20:32
</entry>
<entry>
builds up -- " ...the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and 
to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.  "
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
Rom. 15:4
</entry>
<entry>
encouragement -- "...afin que, par la patience, et par la consolation que 
donnent les Écritures, nous possédions l'espérance."
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
Rom. 10:17
</entry>
<entry>
foi -- "Ainsi la foi vient de ce qu'on entend, et ce qu'on entend vient de 
la parole de Christ."
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
1 Cor. 10:11
</entry>
<entry>
instruction -- "Ces choses leur sont arrivées pour servir d'exemple, et 
elles ont été écrites pour notre instruction..."
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
Matt 4:4
</entry>
<entry>
nourriture -- "Jésus répondit: Il est écrit: L'homme ne vivra pas de pain 
seulement, mais de toute parole qui sort de la bouche de Dieu."
</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-liberates"><title>Un livre qui libère</title>
<para>
Jn.8:32 "<emphasis>and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make 
you free.</emphasis>"This is usually quoted by itself.  Is this a 
conditional or unconditional promise? Would it apply to all kinds of 
knowledge? Find the answers by examining the first half of the sentence, in 
v.31. "<emphasis>If you abide in My word, then you are truly disciples of 
Mine... </emphasis>"</para>
<para>Nous voyons qu'il s'agit d'une promesse conditionnelle, tout 
particulièrement à propos de la vérité de la Parole.</para>

<para>Le mot grec pour "vent" utilisé dans Eph 4:14 signifie plus précisément un 
<emphasis>vent violent. </emphasis> "<emphasis>afin que nous ne soyons plus 
des enfants, flottants et emportés à tout vent de 
doctrine...</emphasis>"L'une des actions de l'étude de la Bible est de nous 
ancrer dans la vérité, ce qui a pour conséquence que nous ne serons pas 
facilement "emportés".</para>

<para><emphasis> Jésus leur répondit : </emphasis>"<emphasis>Vous êtes dans 
l'erreur, parce que vous ne comprenez ni les Écritures, ni la puissance de 
Dieu.</emphasis>"Matthieu.22:29</para>
<para>Quelles sont les deux choses que l'on doit connaître pour être préservés de 
l'erreur ?</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>La Parole de Dieu</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>La puissance de Dieu </para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-wars"><title>Un livre qui combat</title>
<para>
Eph 6:10 est une illustration de notre armement spirituel</para>
<table>
<title>L'armure spirituelle</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Question</entry>
<entry>Réponse</entry>
</row></thead>
<tbody>
<row><entry>Combien des armes listées ici sont défensives ?</entry><entry>5</entry></row>
<row><entry>Combien sont offensives ?</entry><entry>One</entry></row>
<row><entry>La (les) quelle(s) ? </entry><entry>La Parole - <foreignphrase>rhema</foreignphrase></entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-exhortations"><title>les exhortations</title>
<para>
2 Timothée 2:15 "<emphasis>Efforces toi de te présenter devant Dieu comme un 
homme éprouvé, un ouvrier qui n'a point à rougir, qui dispense droitement la 
parole de la vérité.</emphasis>"
</para>
<para>
Colossiens 3:16 "<emphasis>Que la parole de Christ habite parmi vous 
abondamment; instruisez vous et exhortez vous les uns les autres en toute 
sagesse, par des psaumes, par des hymnes, par des cantiques spirituels, 
chantant à Dieu dans vos coeurs sous l'inspiration de la grâce.</emphasis>"
</para>

<para>Si vous êtes riche de quelque chose, combien en avez-vous ? </para>
<para>
Pas qu'un peu !</para>

<para>
Eccl.12:11-12 "<emphasis>The words of wise men are like goads, and masters 
of these collections are like well-driven nails; they are given by one 
Shepherd.  But beyond this, my son, be warned: the writing of many books is 
endless, and excessive devotion to books is wearying to the 
body.</emphasis>"
</para> </sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-once"><title>Annexe : "Une fois pour toutes"</title>
<blockquote>
<attribution>John R. W. Stott, <emphasis>Christ the Controversialist,</emphasis> 
InterVarsity Press 1978, pp.106-107</attribution> <para>The truth regarding the finality of God's initiative in Christ is conveyed 
by one word of the Greek Testament, namely the adverb 
<foreignphrase>hapax</foreignphrase> and 
<foreignphrase>ephapax</foreignphrase>. It is usually translated in the 
Authorized Version once, meaning once for all. It is used of what is so done 
as to be of perpetual validity and never need repetition, and is applied in 
the NT to both revelation and redemption.  Thus, Jude refers to the faith 
which was once for all delivered to the saints (Jude 3), and Romans says, 
"<emphasis>Christ also died for sins once for all</emphasis>" (Rom.6:10, see 
also 1 Pe.3:18; Heb.9:26-28). </para> <para>
Thus we may say that God has spoken once for all and Christ has suffered 
once for all.  This means that the Christian revelation and the Christian 
redemption are both alike in Christ complete.  Nothing can be added to 
either without being derogatory to Christ...  These are the two rocks on 
which the Protestant Reformation was built -- Gods revealed word without the 
addition of human traditions and Christ's finished work without the addition 
of human merits.  The Reformers great watchwords were <foreignphrase>sola 
scriptura</foreignphrase> for our authority and <foreignphrase>sola 
gratia</foreignphrase> for our salvation.</para>
</blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-supplement"><title>Complément : programmes de lecture de la Bible</title> <para> Here are some easy programs to systematically read your Bible.  You can do 
more than one at a time if you like, for instance #1 with #4, or #2 with 
#5.  Vary the program from year to year to keep it fresh!
</para>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
<listitem><para>Nouveau Testament en un an : lire un chapitre par jour, 5 jours par semaine.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Les Proverbes en un mois : lire un chapitre des proverbes par jour, 
correspondant au jour dans le mois.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Les Psaumes en un mois : lire 5 Psaumes par intervals de 30 jour, par 
exemple le vingtième jour du mois, lire les psaumes 20, 50, 80, 110 &amp; 
140.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Psaumes &amp; proverbes en 6 mois : lire dans les psaumes et les proverbes 
un chapitre par jour.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Ancien Testament sans les psaumes &amp; proverbes en deux ans : si vous 
lisez un chapitre par jour de l'Ancien Testament excepté les psaumes &amp; 
proverbes, vous aurez lu l'Ancien Testament en 2 ans et 2 semaines.
</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect1>

</chapter>

