<chapter id="h2-importance"><title>Importância da Palavra de Deus</title>
<para>Understanding God's word is of great importance to all who call on God's 
name.  Study of the Bible is one of the primary ways that we learn to 
communicate with God.</para>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-unique"><title>Um Livro que é Único</title>
<para>The Bible stands alone in many ways.  It is unique in:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
popularity.  Bible sales in North America: more than $500 million per 
year. The Bible is both the the all-time and year-to-year best seller!
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
authorship.  It was written over a period of 1600 years by 40 different 
authors from different backgrounds, yet reads as if written by one.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
preservation.  F. F. Bruce in <emphasis>Are New Testament Documents 
Reliable?</emphasis> compares New Testament manuscripts with other ancient 
texts:
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<table id="h2-importance-manuscripts-table">
<title>Comparação dos manuscritos do Novo Testamento com outros textos antigos.</title>
<tgroup cols="5">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Texto</entry>
<entry>Quando foi Escrito</entry>
<entry>Cópia mais recente</entry>
<entry>Diferença de Tempo</entry><entry>Número de Cópias</entry>
</row></thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Herodotus</entry>
<entry>448-428 A.C.</entry><entry>900 D.C.</entry>
<entry>1300 anos</entry><entry>8
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Tacitus</entry>
<entry>100 D.C.</entry><entry>1100 D.C.</entry>
<entry>1000 anos</entry><entry>20
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Caesar's <emphasis>Gallic War</emphasis></entry>
<entry>50-58 A.C.</entry><entry>900 D.C.</entry>
<entry>950 anos</entry><entry>10
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Livy's <emphasis>História Romana</emphasis></entry>
<entry>59 A.C. - 17 D.C.</entry><entry>900 D.C.</entry>
<entry>900 anos</entry><entry>20
</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>Novo Testamento</entry>
<entry>40 D.C. - 100 D.C.</entry><entry>130 D.C Manuscritos parciais - 350 D.C. Manuscritos completos</entry> <entry>30 - 310 anos</entry><entry>5000 em Grego &amp; 10.000 em Latim
</entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
<para>Ten copies of Caesar's <emphasis>Gallic War</emphasis> exist, the earliest 
of which was copied 900 years after Caesar wrote the original, etc.  For the 
New Testament we have full manuscripts dating to 350 A. D., papyri 
containing most of the New Testament from the 200s, and a fragment of John's 
gospel from 130 A. D.  How many manuscripts do we have to compare to each 
other? 5,000 in Greek and 10,000 in Latin!  </para>
<blockquote><attribution>Textual critic F. J. A. Hort, "The New Testament in the Original Greek", 
vol. 1 p561, Macmillan Co., quoted in <emphasis>Questions of Life</emphasis> 
p.  25-26</attribution><para>"Na verdade e plenitude das evidências e contexto, o Novo Testamento está em 
absoluta e inalcançável posição dentre outras escrituras antigas." </para></blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-breathed"><title>Um Livro Inpirado por Deus</title>
<para><emphasis>Heb.4:12 </emphasis>"<emphasis>For the word of God is living and 
active...  </emphasis>" Jesus said <emphasis>(Mt.4:4),</emphasis> 
"<emphasis>It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every 
word that proceeds [lit., is proceeding] from the mouth of God.</emphasis>" 
As we read the Bible, God's Spirit is there to speak it to our hearts in a 
continually-fresh way.
</para>
<para>2 Tm 3.16 declara "<emphasis>Toda Escritura é divinamente 
inspirada</emphasis>". Você acredita nisso? Antes de responder, considere a 
atitude de Jesus a respeito das Escrituras.  </para>
<blockquote><attribution>John R.W. Stott, <emphasis>Cristo o Controverso</emphasis>, Editora 
InterVarsity 1978, pp.93-95 </attribution><para>He referred to the human authors, but took it for granted that behind them 
all was a single divine Author.  He could equally say 'Moses said' or 'God 
said' (Mk.7:10). He could quote a comment of the narrator in Genesis 2:24 as 
an utterance of the Creator Himself (Mt.19:4-5).  Similarly He said, 'Well 
did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written', when what He went 
on to quote is the direct speech of the Lord God (Mk.7:6 &amp; Is.29:13).  
It is from Jesus Himself that the New Testament authors have gained their 
conviction of the dual authorship of Scripture.  For them it was just as 
true to say that 'God spoke of old to our fathers by the prophets' (Heb.1:1) 
as it was to say that 'men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God' (2 
Pe.1:21).  God did not speak in such a way as to obliterate the personality 
of the human authors, nor did men speak in such a way as to corrupt the Word 
of the divine Author.  God spoke.  Men spoke.  Neither truth must be allowed 
to detract from the other. ...
</para>
<para>
This, then, was Christ's view of the Scriptures.  Their witness was God's 
witness. The testimony of the Bible is the testimony of God.  And the chief 
reason why the Christian believes in the divine origin of the Bible is that 
Jesus Christ Himself taught it.  </para></blockquote>

<para>2 Tm 3.16 conitnua, "<emphasis>e proveitosa para ensinar, para repreender, 
para corrigir, para instruir em justiça; para que o homem de Deus seja 
perfeito, e perfeitamente preparado para toda boa obra</emphasis>". Se nós 
aceitamos que a Bíblia realmente é Deus falando conosco, consequentemente 
ela será nossa autoridade em toda questão de fé e conduta. </para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-works"><title>Um Livro que Funciona</title>
<para>
O que o Estudo Bíblico pode fazer por você? 1 Ts 2.13 diz que a Bíblia 
"<emphasis>opera em vós que credes</emphasis>". Do lado de cada escritura, 
escreva o que a Palavra faz:
</para>
<table id="h2-importance-results-table">
<title>O que o Estudo Bíblico faz para os cristãos?</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Referência</entry>
<entry>Ação</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Ef 5.25
</entry>
<entry>santificação -- "..., tendo-a purificado com a lavagem da água, pela 
palavra"
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
At 20.32
</entry>
<entry>
builds up -- " ...the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and 
to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.  "
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
Rm 15.4
</entry>
<entry>
Encoraja -- "porquanto, tudo que dantes foi escrito, para nosso ensino foi 
escrito, para que, pela constância e pela consolação provenientes das 
Escrituras, tenhamos esperança"
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
Rm 10.17
</entry>
<entry>
Dá fé -- "Logo a fé é pelo ouvir, e o ouvir pela palavra de Cristo"
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
1 Co 10.11
</entry>
<entry>
Instrui -- "Ora, tudo isto lhes acontecia como exemplo, e foi escrito para 
aviso nosso..."
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
Mt 4.4
</entry>
<entry>
Nutre -- "Mas Jesus lhe respondeu: Está escrito: Nem só de pão viverá o 
homem, mas de toda palavra que sai da boca de Deus"
</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-liberates"><title>Um Livro que Liberta</title>
<para>
Jn.8:32 "<emphasis>and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make 
you free.</emphasis>"This is usually quoted by itself.  Is this a 
conditional or unconditional promise? Would it apply to all kinds of 
knowledge? Find the answers by examining the first half of the sentence, in 
v.31. "<emphasis>If you abide in My word, then you are truly disciples of 
Mine... </emphasis>"</para>
<para>Nós vemos que isso é uma promessa condicional, especificamente falando da 
verdade da Palavra de Deus.</para>

<para>A palavra grega para "vento" usada em Efésios 4,14 significa um 
<emphasis>vento violento</emphasis>. "<emphasis> para que não mais sejamos 
meninos, inconstantes, levados ao redor por todo vento de 
doutrina...</emphasis>". Uma coisa que estudar a Bíblia faz por nós é nos 
firmar na verdade, que não nos deixará sermos "levados ao redor". </para>

<para><emphasis>"Jesus, porém, lhes respondeu: Errais, não compreendendo as 
Escrituras nem o poder de Deus"</emphasis> Mt 22.29</para>
<para>Quais as duas coisas que nós precisamos para escapar do erro?</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Palavra de Deus</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Poder de Deus </para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-wars"><title>Um Livro que Luta</title>
<para>
Ef. 6.10-18 é uma figura de nossa armadura espiritual.</para>
<table id="h2-importance-armor-table">
<title>Armadura Espiritual</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Pergunta</entry>
<entry>Resposta</entry>
</row></thead>
<tbody>
<row><entry>Quantas das armas listas são para defesa?</entry><entry>5</entry></row>
<row><entry>Quantas são para atacar?</entry><entry>One</entry></row>
<row><entry>Qual? </entry><entry>a palavra - <foreignphrase>rhema</foreignphrase></entry></row>
</tbody></tgroup></table>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-exhortations"><title>Exortações</title>
<para>
2 Tm 2.15 "Procura apresentar-te diante de Deus aprovado, como obreiro que 
não tem de que se envergonhar, que maneja bem a palavra da verdade"
</para>
<para>
Cl 3.15 "A palavra de Cristo habite em vós ricamente, em toda a sabedoria; 
ensinai-vos e admoestai-vos uns aos outros, com salmos, hinos e cânticos 
espirituais, louvando a Deus com gratidão em vossos corações"
</para>

<para>Se você é rico em alguma coisa, quanto disso você tem? </para>
<para>
Não só um pouquinho!</para>

<para>
Eccl.12:11-12 "<emphasis>The words of wise men are like goads, and masters 
of these collections are like well-driven nails; they are given by one 
Shepherd.  But beyond this, my son, be warned: the writing of many books is 
endless, and excessive devotion to books is wearying to the 
body.</emphasis>"
</para> </sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-once"><title>Apendice: "De uma vez por todas"</title>
<blockquote>
<attribution>John R. W. Stott, <emphasis>Cristo o Controverso,</emphasis>Editora 
InterVarsity 1978, pp.106-107</attribution> <para>The truth regarding the finality of God's initiative in Christ is conveyed 
by one word of the Greek Testament, namely the adverb 
<foreignphrase>hapax</foreignphrase> and 
<foreignphrase>ephapax</foreignphrase>. It is usually translated in the 
Authorized Version once, meaning once for all. It is used of what is so done 
as to be of perpetual validity and never need repetition, and is applied in 
the NT to both revelation and redemption.  Thus, Jude refers to the faith 
which was once for all delivered to the saints (Jude 3), and Romans says, 
"<emphasis>Christ also died for sins once for all</emphasis>" (Rom.6:10, see 
also 1 Pe.3:18; Heb.9:26-28). </para> <para>
Thus we may say that God has spoken once for all and Christ has suffered 
once for all.  This means that the Christian revelation and the Christian 
redemption are both alike in Christ complete.  Nothing can be added to 
either without being derogatory to Christ...  These are the two rocks on 
which the Protestant Reformation was built -- Gods revealed word without the 
addition of human traditions and Christ's finished work without the addition 
of human merits.  The Reformers great watchwords were <foreignphrase>sola 
scriptura</foreignphrase> for our authority and <foreignphrase>sola 
gratia</foreignphrase> for our salvation.</para>
</blockquote>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="h2-importance-supplement"><title>Suplemento: Programas de Leitura Bíblica</title> <para> Here are some easy programs to systematically read your Bible.  You can do 
more than one at a time if you like, for instance #1 with #4, or #2 with 
#5.  Vary the program from year to year to keep it fresh!
</para>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
<listitem><para>Novo Testamento em um Ano: leia um capítulo por dia, 5 dias por semana.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Provérbios em um Mês: leia um capítulo de Provérbios por dia, correspondente 
ao dia do mês.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Salmos em um mês: leia 5 salmos com intervalo de 30 entre eles por dia. Por 
exemplo, no vigésimo. dia você lerá Sl 20, 50, 80, 110 e 140.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Salmos e Provérbios em 6 meses: leia Salmos e Provérbios, um capítulo por 
dia.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Antigo Testamento sem Salmos e Provérbios em 2 anos: se você ler um capítulo 
por dia do Antigo Testamento, pulando Salmos e Provérbios, você lerá o 
Antigo Testamento em 2 anos e 2 semanas.
</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect1>

</chapter>

