<chapter id="hdbk-intro">
  <title>Вступ</title>
  <sect1 id="hdbk-intro-about">
    <title>Про &bibletime;</title>

    <para>&bibletime; is a Bible study tool with support for different types of texts
and languages. Even large amounts of works modules are easy to install and
manage. It is built on the <ulink
url="http://www.crosswire.org/sword/">&sword;</ulink> library, which
provides the back-end functionality for &bibletime;, such as viewing Bible
text, searching etc. &sword; is the flagship product of the <ulink
url="http://www.crosswire.org">&cbs;</ulink>.</para>

    <para>&bibletime; is designed to be used with works encoded in one of the formats
supported by the &sword; project. Complete information on the supported
document formats can be found in the <ulink
url="http://www.crosswire.org/sword/develop/index.jsp"> developers
section</ulink> of the &sword; Project, &cbs;.</para>

    <sect2 id="hdbk-intro-works">
      <title>Доступні твори</title>
      <para>Over 280 documents in 50 languages are available from the <ulink
url="http://www.crosswire.org">&cbs;</ulink>.  These include: <variablelist>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Біблії</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>The full Bible text, with optional things like Strong's Numbers, headings
and/or footnotes in the text.  Bibles are available in many languages, and
include not only modern versions, but also ancient texts like the Codex
Leningradensis ("WLC", Hebrew), and the Septuagint ("LXX", Greek). This is
the most advanced section in the library of the &sword; project.</para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Книги</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>Books available include "Imitation of Christ", "Enuma Elish", and "Josephus:
The Complete Works"</para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Коментарі</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>Commentaries available include classics like John Wesley's "Notes on the
Bible", Matthew Henry's commentary and Luther's "Commentary on Galatians."
With the <emphasis>Personal</emphasis> commentary you can <link
linkend="hdbk-op-parts-desk-write"> record your own personal notes</link> to
sections of the Bible.</para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Щоденні молитви</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>Many people appreciate these daily portions from God's word. Available works
include Daily Light on the Daily Path, and the Losungen.</para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
          <term>Лексикони/Словники</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>Lexicons available include: Robinson's Morphological Analysis Codes, and the
International Standard Bible Encyclopaedia. Dictionaries available include
Strong's Hebrew Bible Dictionary, Strong's Greek Bible Dictionary, Webster's
Revised Unabridged Dictionary of the English Language 1913, Nave's Topical
Bible.</para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
      </variablelist> There are several other repositories that
&bibletime; will load and use.
      </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="hdbk-intro-motivation">
      <title>Мотивація</title>
      <para>Our desire is to serve God, and to do our part to help others grow in their
relationship with Him. We have striven to make this a powerful, quality
program, and still make it simple and intuitive to operate. It is our desire
that God be praised, as He is the source of all good things.</para>
      <blockquote>
        <attribution>Якова 1:17, NASB</attribution>
        <para>Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above, coming down
from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting
shadow.</para>
      </blockquote>
      <para>Благослови вас Бог, використовуючи цю програму.</para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>
</chapter>
